unjustly in any way, he may make a complaint shall be in writing and addressed to his 
immediate superior.  
 
 (2) Any other  method of seeking a redress from a superior authority, save as otherwise 
mentioned in these regulations, is forbidden.  
 
122. To whom complaint be made.   (1) If the complaint be a Commanding Officer of an 
Indian Naval Ship, the complaint shall be in writin g and addressed to his immediate superior.  
 
 (2) If the complainant be an officer, the complaint shall be made orally to the 
Commanding Officer, in accordance with the custom of the service whereby a complainant is to 
make an oral request to see the Comman ding Officer for that purpose.  
 
 (3) If the complainant is an officer below the rank of Commander other than a 
Commanding Officer, the request shall be made through the Executive Officer.  
 
(4) If the complainant is not the Head of the Department, the reque st shall be made in  
the first place to the Head of the Department.  
 
(5) (a) If the complainant is a sailor, the complaint shall be made orally to the  
Commanding    Officer.  
 
(b) A request to see the Commanding Officer shall be made to the Executive Officer  
through the complainant’s Divisional Officer and the Head of the Department  
 
© A sailor detached from his ship or establishment shall make the complaint to the 
Officer under whose command such sailor may be at that time.  
 
123.  Assistance to complaint.  (1) If the complainant be an officer of junior rank or a  
sailor, he may request any officer in his ship to advise and assist him in the statement of his case  
at all stages.  
 
(2) Where no request is made as provided in sub -regulation (1) it shall be the duty of  
the Divisional Officer, or such other officer as the Commanding Officer may detail, to advise 
and assist the complainant.  
 
 (3) It shall be the duty of the officer advising and assisting the complainant under sub -
regulation (2) to invite the attention of such complainant to the provisions of regulation  
 
124.  Rules to be Observed by the Complainant.   (1) Complaints shall be confined to a 
statement of facts complained of and to the alleged consequences affecting the complainant.  
 
 (2) Joint complaints by two or more sailors are not allowed.  
 
(3) It shall be an offence against good order and naval discipline to make a complaint