commissions in the Service up to the rank of Honorary Lieutenant 
Commander by the President.  
 
                        (ii)        Retired Master Chief Petty Officers or Chief Petty Officers may also  
                                   be granted Ho norary Commissions in the Service up to the rank of  
                                  Honorary Lieutenant by the President.  
 
 
(c)   Honorary Aide -de-Camp.  
 
(i)  Officers of the Service are eligible for appointment as Honorary Aide -de-
Camp to the President  of the Republic of India.  Not more than one 
officer, at a time, should hold such an appointment which shall be for a 
period of five years but may be terminated earlier on the holders demise, 
demotion, discharge or retirement from the Service or demission  of office 
by the President.  
 
(ii)  An officer shall be granted a step higher in honorary rank or any 
substantive rank held by him on appointment as Aide -de-Camp to the 
President.  
 
(iii)  The rank of an Officer for appointment as Aide -de-Camp to the Presid ent 
shall be Commander.  
 
21.   Qualifications for entry into the Service.  All new entrants for commission in any 
branch of the Service, except medical branch or honorary commission, shall be taken in as 
Acting Sub -Lieutenants.  The qualifications for entr y into various branches of the Service are as 
follows: - 
 
(a)  Executive Branch -  In order to qualify for appointment in this branch a  
candidate shall - 
i.  have attained the age of twenty -one-years and be less than forty years 
of age; and  
 
ii. be a graduate of a reco gnized university with Mathematics and 
Physics as principal subject ; and  
 
iii. be a graduate of recognized university, preferably in Commerce 
and/or Law; or  
 
iv. be a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants; or have held  
responsible post in a business co ncern with such experience as would 
be of use in the service.  
(b)  Engineering Branch -  In order to qualify for appointment in this branch a  
candidate shall -