(b) to whom he can directly or indirectly show favour in the exercise of his 
official functions, or in circumstances where such acceptance might affect the 
discharge of his duties.  
 
(2) An officer or sailor shall immediately report to the Chief of the Naval Staff the  
acceptance of a gift by such officer or sailor with as complete a description as possible about the 
gift. 
 
(4) The value of the gifts received by an officer or sailor posted in Delhi or New  
Delhi shall be got assessed by the Toshakhana of the Ministry of External Affairs and the gifts 
received by an officer or sailor stationed at places other then Delhi or New De lhi shall be got 
evaluated through the nearest local customs officer.  
 
Explanation – A reference to the Customs authorizes shall be made by the Commanding 
Officer or the appropriate superior officer and not by the recipient of the gift.  
 
 (4) Pending a dec ision regarding the retention of the gift by the officer or sailor, the gift 
shall be deposited by the recipient for the safe custody with the Commanding Officer or the 
appropriate superior officer.  
 
 (5) Where a gift received by the recipient, is not allo wed to be retained it shall be 
dispatched to or deposited in the Toshakhana.  
 
 (6) Where the gift is deposited with the Toshakhana, whether before or after the decision 
regarding its retention by the officer or sailor, the Chief of the Naval Staff furnish  the 
Toshakhana with full particulars of such gift so that the article may be taken on charge in the 
stock register of the Toshakhana.  
 
 (7) The officer or sailor may be permitted by the Government to retain the gift if its 
value is commensurate with the s tatus of such officer or sailor.  
 
132. Insolvency.  When an officer or sailor of the Service is adjusted or declared an 
insolvent, he will be considered liable to discharge from the Service.  
 
133. Discipline of Regular Naval Personnel.  Offences committed by th e Regular Naval 
personnel serving with the Service shall be dealt with by the Commanding Officer of the 
Service to which such personnel are attached in accordance with the provisions of the Act and 
the regulations for the Navy.  
 
134. Consequences of Convi ction by Civil Authorities.  When any personnel of the Service 
is convicted by a civil authority of any offence, the case shall be reported to the Prescribed 
authority who, if considered advisable, may impose the penalties enumerated in Regulations for 
the Navy, Part II.  
 
135. Reduction in Rank when not subject to the Act.  When not subject to the Act, a 
Master Chief Petty Officer, Chief Petty Officer, a Petty Officer or a Leading Rank may be