in terms which comprise language or comments that are disrespectful or insubordinate or 
subversive of discipline, except in so far as such language or comments are necessary for an 
adequate statement of the facts.  
 
125.   How the Complaint shall be dealt with. (1) On receipt of any complaint, the 
Commanding Officer or other officer receiving such complaint shall satisfy himself that the 
complaint is made in accordance with these regulations and shall deal with it in the exercise of 
his discretion as may seem to him just and proper and cause the complainant to be informed of 
his decision.  
 
(2) Where the Commanding Officer or the other officer receiving the complaint  
refuses or is unable to remedy the complaint made, the complainant may pray for submitting the 
complaint in writing, and on receiving such request, the Commanding Officer or the other 
Officer shall allow the complainant twenty -four hours to reconsider the matter.  
 
(3) If the complainant is not satisfied with the decision on his complaint or if the does  
not get the redress asked for within a period of one month from its dispatch to the next superior 
authority, as the case may be, he may request that his complaint be forwarded to the next 
superior authority to be delt with in accordance with the provisions of sub regulation (1) and 
(2).  All such requests shall be complied with.  The complainant shall be justified in appearing 
direct to th e next superior authority if he does not receive the final reply within a period of six 
months from the date of submission of his complaint.  
 
 (4) An officer or sailor shall not be penalized for making a complaint in accordance with 
these regulations.  
 
 
126. Remarks on or Criticism against Superiors.  (1) Except as otherwise provided 
in these regulations, no officer or sailor shall pass remarks on or make criticism against the 
conduct or orders of his superior officers which may tend to bring such superior officers 
into contempt.  
 
(2) No Officer shall say or do anything which, if heard or seen by, or reported to  
 those under him, might discourage them or make them dissatisfied with their condition or with 
the service on which they are or may be employed.  
 
127.   Combinations.  (1) All combinations of officers or sailors for the purpose of bringing 
about alterations in existing regulations or custom of the Service, whether affecting their 
interests individually or collectively, are contrary to the tradition an d practice of the Service and 
injurious to its welfare and discipline.  
 
 (2) Officers or sailors shall not combine, either by the appointment of committees or in 
any other manner, not shall they sign collectively memorials, petitions or applications, not 
obtain signatures to such documents.  
  
128. Unauthorised Organisation.  No officer or sailor shall, without the express sanction of 
the Government, take official cognizance of or attend, address, assist officially or take active