(2)      The officer to whom an application under sub -regulation (1)is made shall cause the 
application to fill up and sign in his presence a statement set forth in the enrolment fo rm 
prescr ibed in this behalf.  
 
        (3)      An applicant shall be required to produce a certificate from his employer, if any 
permitting him to join the Service and giving an undertaking that the applicant shall be  made 
available for training and embodiment as  and when required by the Adminis trative authority 
concerned.  
 
       (4)       In peacetime, the period training shall be adjusted to suit the convenience of the 
enroll ed person as far as possible.  
 
       (5)      If the applicant is accepted for enrolm ent, he shall be required to sign a declaration 
provided at the foot of the enrolment form referred to i n sub -regulation (2)  
 
      (6)      The Recruiting Officer, when he is satisfied that the applicant understands the 
questions put to him and consents t o the conditions of the Service, shall sign a certificate to that 
effect on the said enrolment form and the applicant shall thereupon  be deemed to be enrolled.  
 
54.       Age of Enrolment. In order to be eligible for enrolment a candidate shall not be belo w 
twenty -one years of age and shall not be more than forty years of age.  
 
           Provided that the upper age limit may be relaxed in the case of specially experienced 
candidates at the discretion of the Chief of the Naval.  
 
55.      Period for Enrollme nt.  A sailor shall be enrolled for a further period of seven years, 
which may further be extended for a period not exceeding two years at a time, provided that the 
total period so extended shall  not exceed fifteen years.  
 
56.       Educational and Technic al Standards.   The educational and technical standards of the 
candidates shall be such as may be laid down by the Government from time  for the various 
branches.  
 
57.        Promotion.  Promotion shall be governed by the instructions laid down from time to 
time by the Government  
 
58.        Transfer.  A person enrolled in the Service shall be transferred by the officer who 
enrolled him to establishment of the Service constituted for the zone in which such pe rson for 
the time resides.  
 
59.       Allotment of  Personal Numbers.  (1) Every person shall, on enrolment, in the Service, 
be assigned a personal number.  
 
60.       Discharge.  (1)  When a sailor, while undergoing initial training is found to be suffering 
from a disability which is likely to prevent him becoming an efficient sailor, he shall be 
medically examined, and if found unfit , discharge from the Service.