7.  Leave and Furlough.  (1) Leave, pay and allowances during leave shall be as for the 
regular Navy and shall be regul ated by the Commanding Officer of the Indian Navy Auxiliary 
Service ship or establishment.  
 
 (2) No leave or furlough may be granted from training camps except in very exceptional 
cases.  
 
8. Seniority.  The officers of the Service when serving with the office rs of the Regular 
Navy shall be junior to the regular officers in the same rank except that the officer of the 
Service holding a substantive rank shall be senior to an officer of the regular Navy holding the 
same rank in an acting capacity.  
 
9.  Vacancies.  (1) Vacancies in the permanent staff of officers shall be reported by the 
Commanding Officer to the Naval Headquarters through normal channel in sufficient time to 
another officer to be posted in relief.  
 
(2) The Administrative authority may temporarily fil l the vacancies in the sanctioned 
establishment by attachment from a regular ship or establishment pending the appointment by 
Naval Headquarters of an officer possessing the requisite qualifications.  
 
 (3) If the Commanding Officer of the ship or establish ment wishes that an officer of the 
service may be appointed he shall forward such recommendation to the Naval Headquarters 
through normal channel.  
 
 
SCHEDULE IV  
 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SERVICE OF MASTER CHIEF  
PETTY OFFICERS, AND OTHER SAILORS ON THE PERM ANENT STAFF  
 
(See Regulation 72)  
 
1. Selection.  (1) A person seconded to the permanent staff from the regular Navy shall, as 
far as possible, belong to the zone in which the ship or establishment is raised.  
 
(2) If the Commanding Officer does not require reg ular naval personnel on account 
of suitable personnel of the service being available, suitable sailors of the service of the 
appropriate rank may be selected for full time employment on the permanent staff of a ship or 
establishment.  
 
2. Attachment to reg ular Naval Ship or Establishment.   Master Chief Petty Officers, 
Chief Petty Officers and other sailors seconded from regular Navy, when not required for 
training or administrative duties with the service shall normally return to their own ship or 
establish ment subject to such orders as may be issued by the Administrative authority or 
Commodore.  Bureau of sailors from time to time.  In the case of the personnel of the Service, 
they may be attached to the nearest ship or establishment under orders of the Adm inistrative or 
Commodore, Bureau of Sailors.