Schedule VII shall be issued to sailors whenever they report for annual or voluntary training or 
for camp and shall be recovered from sailors on conclusion  of the training or camp.  
 
92. Application of Clothing Regulations.  The provisions of Clothing Regulations for 
sailors contained in Instructions relating to Supply of Victualling, Clothing and Mess Traps to 
IN Ships etc. (INBR 13) and Uniform Regulations for sailors in the Indian Navy (INBR 3) and 
in other orders issued from time to time shall apply to the personnel of the Service except where 
otherwise stated in these regulations.   
 
93. Provisioning of Clothing.  (1) Ready -made garments stocked in Clothi ng Stores are to 
be issued and any alterations to the garments so issued that may be considered necessary by the 
Commanding Officer of the establishment shall be carried out by the Clothing Stores.  
 
 (2) Material  for making garments shall be issued when g arments of the requisits size are 
not available in the Clothing Stores, the quantity of cloth and garniture material to be issued 
being restricted to the scales laid down in the Clothing Regulations.  
 
 (3) Where the material for making garments is issued u nder sub -regulation (1) the cost 
of the stitching shall be borne by Government.  
 
94. Maintenance of Clothing Accounts. (1) Clothing accounts shall be maintained by the 
Base Logistics Officer or the Supply Officer concerned, as the case may be.  
 
 (2) Separa te clothing legers for the Service shall be maintained in accordance with the 
current regulations.  
 
95. Replacement of Outgrown Garments.  (1) Where the garments are out grown by the 
wearer and the Commanding Officer is satisfied that the issue of new garm ents has become 
necessary and that due attention was paid to the instructions laid down for fitting he may 
authorize replacement of garments free of charge.  
 
 (2) The life of the garments withdrawn from the sailors shall be determined by a Board 
of Survey to be appointed locally by the Commanding Officer and noted in the clothing ledger 
when re -issuing the garments.  
 
 (3) Garments which are replaced under sub -regulation (1) shall be withdrawn from the 
sailors, washed if necessary, and taken on charge for re -issue.  
 
96. Payment issues.   Sailors are allowed to purchase on payment such item of clothing and 
necessaries as are included in Schedule VI and VIII.   
 
 
97. Stock of Boots.  (1) Twenty per cent of requirement of boots over and above the 
authorized propo rtion may be maintained.  
 
 (2) The Commanding Officers shall work out the estimates of the requirements of boots 
on the strength of their establishments on 1st April of each year.