their outward and return journey.  The class of railway accommodation shall be the same as that 
which was admissible to them prior to their leaving the Service.  
 
210. Civilian Employee.  Civilians may be employed on the lowest nerrick rates of pay at the 
discretion of the Commanding Officer for a period of seven days before the assembly and seven 
days after the dispersal of camps.  Civilians in lieu of service personnel who are essential for 
training and who are not available for enrolment ma y also be employed.  Additional civilian 
establishment may at the discretion of the competent financial authority prescribed in regulation 
59 of the Financial Regulations Part I be entertained at the lowest local rate to meet 
requirements.  
 
211. Peons.  The entertainment of one office peon per slip or establishment at the lowest rate 
is admissible.  Additional Class IV establishment, which may include Class IV servants other 
than office peons, may, at the discretion of the competent Financial authority pres cribed in 
regulations 58 and 59 of the Financial Regulations Part I, be entertained at the lowest local rates 
to meet requirements without restriction as regards the period of employment.  Officer peons 
employed by an establishment shall be granted liverie s by the Government as admissible.    
 
212. Permission for Clerk to Accompany Commanding Officer on Recruiting Duty.  
 
 (1) A Commanding Officer of any establishment when proceeding on recruiting duty 
and when it is anticipated that not less then twenty recruit s shall be obtained may, if he 
so desires, take with him a clerk from the existing establishment of clerks employed 
with his establishment.  
 
(3) In the case of civilian clerks traveling allowance shall be admissible under the 
rules and conditions prescribed fo r Civilians (Subordinate) in Travel   Regulations.  
 
213. Absence from Duty of Government Servants Enrolled in the Service.  When 
Government servants enrolled in the Service attend the annual training, or courses of 
instructions, the period of absence from duty shall not be deducted from any casual or other 
leave which may be admissible to them and shall be regarded as duty for the purposes of civil 
leave and pesnsion.  
 
214. Service of Government Servants to Count towards Increment of Pay.  Government 
servan ts called up for service, if on incremental salary, shall count such naval service towards 
increment in civil pay and also towards civil pension, if they would have counted for those 
purposes in their corresponding service in the civil department but for t he deputation to naval 
service.  As regards leave they shall continue to be governed by the civil rules applicable to 
them before transfer to naval service  
 
215. Free rations.  During annual and initial training camps for ships or establishments and 
traini ng camps during courses of instructions or when called up in aid of the civil power or 
when otherwise embodied or when taken into and kept in military custody, all sailors shall be 
entitled to free ration or allowance in lieu thereof as laid down for the p ersonnel of the regular 
Navy.