(3) (a)  Subject to the conditions specified in sub -regulation (2), pay and 
allowances shall be admissible to members of the Service who, by reason of a 
disability contracted in,  and by, the performance of naval duty, are certified by a 
Medical Board as unable to follow their trade or calling up to a maximum of six 
months from the day on which the disability was incurred.  
 
(b) Pay and allowances shall be admissible for a maximum p eriod of 
three months when the disability is incurred in the performance of 
regimental sports or games of definitely military or naval character which 
are held with the approval of competent Naval Authority and is certified 
by a Medical Board as provided i n clause (a).  
 
(4)  In the case of sickness (ailment or injury) or disability of a temporary 
nature sustained in and by the performance of bona fide Naval training or duty 
involving hospitalization for a maximum period of fifteen days in year pay and 
allow ances shall be admissible on submission of the claim by the Commanding 
Officer of the hospital concerned for every day of stay in the hospital - 
 
(a) when undergoing training.  
 
(b) when undergoing weekly drills or instructions.  
 
(c ) when embodied.  
 
 
192. Admiss ibility of Disability Certificate by Commanding Officer.  For the purpose of 
aiding the Medical Board in determining whether the disability is attributable to naval service or 
otherwise, the Commanding Officer of the establishment concerned shall provide t he hospital to 
which the member of the Service may be admitted with a certificate to the effect that in his 
opinion the disability contracted is or is not attributable to naval service, and where the 
disability is incurred white participating in regimental  sports or games, the certificate shall 
include the fact that such sport or games had been organized or approved by the competent 
Naval authority.  
 
193.  Medical Board.   
(1) The Medical Board Armed Force in hospital shall be composed of - 
 
(a) the Commanding Of ficer who shall be the President of the Medical 
Board;  
 
(b) One or two other medical officers nominated by the President of the 
board.  
 
(2) The proceedings of the Medical Board shall be approved by the Command Medical 
Officer of the establishment shall inf orm the Command Medical Officer of such 
admission and shall arrange for the constitution of a Medical Board.