periodically reviewed and modified by the Government.  
 
74. Permanent S taff to Count against the Sanctioned Complement of Establishment.  
(1) Officers and sailors employed on permanent strength shall count against the sanctioned 
complement of the establishment.  
 
 (2)   Wherever possible officers and sailors shall be nominate d from the regular Naval 
personnel and posted with the Service on full time duty.  
 
 (3)   Vacancies in the permanent staff shall be reported by the Commanding Officer to 
the Prescribed Authority, who may temporarily fill the vacancy in the sanctioned estab lishment 
by attachment from a regular establishment pending the appointment of an officer or a sailor 
possessing the requisite qualification.  
 
 (4)   The authority for appointing an officer on the permanent strength shall be the Naval 
Headquarters.  
 
75. Duties of Permanent Staff.  The duties of the permanent staff are - 
 
 (a)   to instruct all Service personnel under the orders of the Commanding Officer.  
 
 (b)   to carry out such administrative duties as may be entrusted to them.  
 
76. Command of Establishme nts.  The Commands of establishment will be held in 
accordance with the sanctioned complement of the establishments by officers of the service or 
by regular Naval Officers of equivalent rank.  
 
77. Tenure of Appointment of Permanent Staff.  The tenure of ap pointment of 
Commanding Officer, except when otherwise ordered by Naval Headquarters, shall be as 
follows: - 
 
(a)  Commanders and above - Four years, In the case of officers of the regular Navy, 
this may be extended up to five years under orders of Naval Headqua rters.  
 
(b) Lieutenant Commanders/Lieutenants -   Three years, In the case of officers of the 
regular Navy this may be extended up to five years under orders of Naval 
Headquarters, and extension being granted for one year at a time.  
 
Note -  When only one office r in any rank belonging to the permanent establishment is 
appointed as a Commanding Officer in the establishment, the tenure of appointment as 
prescribed in this regulation shall not apply in so far as officers of the regular Navy are 
concerned.  
 
                                               SECTION II - DUTIES  
 
 
78. Duties of the Commanding Officer/Battery Commander.  (1) The Commanding