4.      Application of the Act and Regulations, All persons enrolled in the Service shall be 
subject to the Navy Act, 1957 (62 of 1957) and these regulations.  
 
5.   Application of Naval Regulations ,  Where no provision or insufficient prov ision has 
been made in these regulations in relation to any matter for which regulations have been made 
for the Indian Navy, the Regulations for the Navy in so far as they are not inconsistent with 
these regulations, shall apply to such matter.  
 
6.   Const itution of Establishments .  The Central Government may constitute such number 
such number of establishments of the Service as it thinks fir and may disband or reconstitute 
any such establishments.  
 
7.   Composition of Indian Naval Auxiliary Service Cadre . The Cadre of the Service shall 
consist of - 
 
            (a)  officers; and  
 
            (b)  sailors.  
 
8.   Observance and enforcement of the Regulations.          An officer of the Service  
shall    acquaint himself with and shall enforce the provisions o f the Act, the     regulations made 
there under and all orders issued by the Government, the Chief of the Naval Staff, 
Administrative authority or his superior officer, and shall observe the established customs and 
practices of the Indian Navy.  
 
9.   Promu lgation of Orders.   
 
(1)  The Commanding Officer shall ensure that any new orders concerning the 
officers and sailors working in his establishment are read to them by the Divisional 
Officers and copies thereof kept at a place accessible to such personnel for a t least a 
week after their promulgation.  
 
(2)  When orders referred to in sub -regulation (1) affect particular duties, the 
Commanding Officer shall ensure that the personnel so affected are thoroughly 
instructed as to their contents.  
 
10.   Eligibility for Re cruitment.  
 
(1)   In order to be eligible for entry to the Service, a person shall be - 
 
(a)     a citizen of India, or  
(b)     a subject of Bhutan, or  
(c)     a subject of Nepal, or  
(d)       a person of Indian origin who has migrated from any country with  
the intention of    permanently settling in India.