(b) Leading Seamen and below - 
 
(i) Road Journeys.  Ration allowance shall be at the rates as is 
admissible to the personnel of the regular Navy.  Such ration allowance 
shall be admissible for every twenty -four hours or part thereof the 
journey provided the journey exceeds six hours, allowance between six 
and twelve hours being at half the ordinary rate and between twelve to 
twenty -four hours at full rate.  No allowance shall be admissible for 
journeys commenced and completed between 2200 hours and 0600 hours.  
Actual traveling expenses in addition to ration allowance shall in no case 
be admissible unless sanctioned under regulation 70 (a) (i) (3) and rule 61 
of Travel Regulations.  Such expenses shall be limited to mileage 
allowance as laid down in rule 201 of Travel Regulations.  
 
 
(ii) Rail Journeys.  Conveyance on warrant and ration allowance 
shall be admissible at the same rates as are admissible to sailors of the 
regular Navy.  Such ration allowance shall be a dmissible for every 
twenty -four hours or part thereof of the journey provided the journey 
exceeds six hours.  Allowance between 0600 hours and 1200 hours shall 
be at half the ordinary rate and between twelve and twenty -four hours 
shall be at full rates.  N o allowance shall be admissible for journeys 
commenced and completed between 2200 hours and 0600.  
 
Explanation -  
 
1. Personnel of the Service when proceeding to join duty under these regulations or 
when returning home on disembodiment shall be entitled to  conveyance allowance in 
the manner and at the scale admissible to the corresponding ranks of the regular Navy.  
 
II. Personnel of the Service when proceeding to take charge on permanent staff duty or 
appointments or to relinquish any charge thereof shall b e entitled to conveyance 
allowance on permanent duty scale for themselves and their families as is admissible 
to the personnel of the regular Navy.  
 
205. Free Conveyance on Discharge. Free conveyance is admissible to personnel of the 
Service to their home on discharge as under - 
 
 (a) on discharge under these regulations;  
 
(b) on service being no longer required - 
 
(i) for misconduct;  
 
(ii) as unlikely to become an efficient