(c ) when services are no longer required for reasons other than 
disciplinary reasons.  
 
 
190. Pay for Assessment of Terminal Gratuity.   
(1) Pay for the  purpose of assessment of terminal gratuity for sailors shall include: - 
 
(a) basic pay of the substantive rank last held;  
 
(b) increment of pay;  
 
(c ) good conduct pay.  
 
(2) The authorities for certifying that service rendered is satisfactory for the purpo se of 
grant of terminal gratuity shall be - 
 
(a) In the case of an officer - The Director of Personal 
Services, Naval Headquarters;  
 
(b) In the case of a sailor -    The Commanding Officer of the 
establishment.  
 
(3) No disability contracted in, and by the per formance of military duty shall entail any 
loss of pay and allowances for the day or for period of camp, as the case may be, which 
would have been admissible had the disability not occurred.  
 
191. Pay and Allowances while in Hospital.   
(1) For disabilities oth er than those necessitating invalidment out of service and for 
which personnel of the Service have to be detained in Service or civil hospitals or sent 
home disabled, pay and allowances shall be continued in accordance with the 
provisions of sub -regulation s (2) to (4) but the provisions of sub -regulations (2) to (4) 
shall not apply to personnel eligible for disability pension.  
 
(2)  (a)  The disabilities referred to in sub -regulation (1) should be certified by a 
Medical Board as having been caused in and by  the performance of naval duty.  
 
(b) The Commanding Officer of the Establishment shall forward a claim 
supported by the proceedings of the Medical Board to the Naval Headquarters in 
the case of officers and to the Commodore, Bureau of sailors, Bombay, in t he 
case of sailors.  
 
(c ) Pay and allowances shall be admissible at the discretion of the Chief of 
the Naval Staff in the case of officers and the Administrative authority in the 
case of sailors, for a period not exceeding six months beyond the duration 
prescribed for training or embodiment of the particular ship or establishment.