221. Supply of Service Labels. Service postage labels shall be obtained in accordance with 
the procedure in force for their supply by a civil treasury or Military Treasury Chest Officers.  
 
222. Permanent Advance.  A permanent advance may be authorized in order to provide the 
Adm inistrative authority with cash to meet immediate payments.  This imprest may also be 
utilized for making advance payments, prior to completion of training of messing allowance, 
musketry prizes, rail fares to men who cannot utilize their Warrants in accord ance with rule 37 
(ii) of the Travel Regulations, recruiting allowance, pay of discharged sailors and cost of repairs 
to clothing. Such advances shall be adjusted after completion of the training.  The 
Administrative authority in consultation with the Cont roller of Defence Accounts (Navy) shall 
take into consideration the actual requirements of establishments and fix a suitable amount for 
the Imprest.  
 
 223. Advance for Establishment Funds.  A refundable advance of four hundred rupees shall 
be granted to e ach of the reconstituted or newly raised ship or establishment.  
 
224. Duplication and Typewriters.  Establishments shall be entitled to typewriters under the 
terms and conditions and at the scales as applicable to the regular Navy.  The Commanding 
Officer of the establishment shall also be entitled to duplications under the terms and conditions 
and at the scales as laid down for the regular Navy.  The repair of typewriters and duplicators 
shall be carried out in accordance with the terms obtaining in the re gular Navy.  
 
225.    Musketry Price Allowance.  An annual allowance of two rupees for every officer or 
sailor who completes his musketry course shall be placed at the disposal of the Commanding 
Officer of the establishment for expenditure, at his discretion, o n musketry and other prizes.  
 
226. Allowance for Upkeep of Musketry and Range Appliances.  An annual allowance of 
nineteen paise for every officer and sailor who on the first day of April each year or at the 
option of the Commanding Officer of the establishment  on the first day of the annual training is 
borne on the strength of the establishment shall be placed at the disposal of the Commanding 
Officer of the establishment for the upkeep of the musketry and range appliances.  To this sum 
may be added any recover ies made by the Commanding Officer on account of lead and empty 
cartridges cases.  
 
227. Characoal for Drying Purposes. Charcoal shall be issued on an “as required” scale for 
drying of the equipment and clothing in store of ships or establishments during the non -training 
period.  Issues shall be made on the authority of the Administrative authority where conditions 
of humidity warrant the issue of charcoal.  
 
228.  Payment of Uniform and Clothing Allowances.   
 
(1) Officers shall receive an initial outfit allowance as for the officers of the regular 
Navy and shall be required to provide and maintain clothing and equipment as for 
regular navy officers.  An officer who has already drawn an outfit allowance from the 
government shall be governed by the same rules as are app licable to the officers of the 
regular Navy.