160. Medical Equipment.  The scale for medical equipment shall be as laid down for regular 
Naval establishments.  
 
161. Scale of Equipment t o be Maintained by Officers and Sailors.  The scale of 
equipment to be maintained by officers and sailors shall be laid down in the warrant of 
armament stores.  
 
162. Reports and Returns.  (1) The reports and returns as required by the Prescribed 
authority the Naval Headquarters or any other authority shall be submitted by all the Service 
establishments concerned to the appropriate authorities on due dates.  
 
(2) Annual Inspection Reprt shall be drawn up on delay occurs in the submission of 
reports and return s. 
 
163. Annual Inspection Reports.  (1) Each establishment of the Service shall prepare an 
annual inspection report for submission to the Naval Headquarters through the Administrative 
authority.  
 
(2) Annual Inspection Report shall be drawn up on completio n of annual training camps 
by the Inspecting Officer designated by the Naval Headquarters.  
 
164. Strength, Casualty and Wastage Returns.  (1) Strength and wastage returns of the 
establishments of the service shall be submitted monthly on the first of each  month.  
 
 (2) Casuality returns shall be submitted as and when causalities occur.  
 
165. Confidential Reports. Confidential reports on officers shall be prepared in accordance 
with the instructions issued by the Naval Headquarters from time to time on the s ame dates as 
for the officers of the regular Navy.    
 
166. Record of Service of Officers.  The record of service of officers shall be maintained at 
the Naval Headquarters.  
 
167. Publications Documents and Forms.  The Commanding Officers shall ensure that t he 
latest editions of Naval publications, documents, and forms required for their establishments are 
maintained duly corrected in accordance with the amendments issued from time to time.  They 
will periodically review publications and documents in their po ssession and return surpluses to 
the issuing authority.  The forms as approved by the Government are specified in Schedule IX.  
 
168. Documentation.    (1) Documents pertaining to officers shall be maintained at the 
Naval Headquarters.  
 
 (2) Documents pertaining  to officers shall be maintained by the Commodore, Bureau of 
Sailors Bombay, and the Commanding Officers of the establishments.  
 
                      SECTION II - ACCOMODATION