3. Establishment of Permanent Staff.  The establishment of Master Chief Petty Officers 
and other ranks of the permanent staff shall count against the authorized strength of the ship or 
establishment.  
 
4. Tenure  of Appointment.  The tenure of appointment shall be as follows: - 
 
Indian Naval Auxiliary Service - five years, except when otherwise ordered.  The 
tenure may further be extended up to five years, under orders of the Commanding 
Officer of the ship or estab lishment, extension being granted for one year at a time and 
approval obtained from the Commodore, Bureau of sailors or the Naval Headquarters:  
 
Provided that the above tenure shall start afresh in case of a Mater Chief Petty 
Officer/Chief Petty Officer an d other rank of the service who are posted to a new appointment 
on the permanent staff in the same ship or establishment or in another ship or establishment 
either in the same rank or in a higher rank.  In case such sailors employed on the permanent 
staff are the only ones in their rank and trade in the entire establishment, the above tenure shall 
not apply.  
 
5. Action if a Sailor is found Unsuitable.  Any sailor found unsuitable for employment on 
the permanent on the permanent staff of the Service shall be  relieved and may, in the case of 
regular Navy personnel, be borne supernumerary to his ship or establishment until absorbed 
and, in the case of Service personnel, be relieved for his full time employment.  
 
6. Re-appointment.  No sailor seconded from the regu lar Navy shall be re -appointed to 
the permanent staff within two years of completion of his previous tenure except when 
otherwise ordered by the Administrative authority or Commodore, Bureau of Sailors.  
 
7. Responsibility for Pay and Accounts. The Commanding Officer shall be responsible 
for the disbursement or accounting of cash in respect of the sailors on the permanent staff.  
 
8.  Appointment and Relief of Permanent Staff.  The appointment and relief of sailors of 
the regular Navy on the permanent staff shall b e coordinated by the Commanding Officer of the 
ship or establishment concerned in consultation with the Commodore, Bureau of Sailors.  
 
9. Leave and Pay and Allowances during Leave.  (1) Leave and pay and allowance 
during leave shall be as for the regular Navy . 
 
 (2) Leave shall be regulated by the Commanding Officer of the ship or establishment.  
 
(3) No leave may be granted from the Service training camps except in very exceptional 
circumstances.  
 
10. Seniority.  All regular Naval personnel of the permanent st aff shall be senior to all the 
personnel of the Service of the same rank.