175. Financial powers of Commanding Officers of Establishments.  The financial powers 
of the Commanding Officer of an establishment shall be as laid down in Schedules I and V of 
Appendix II Part II of Financial Regulations Part I (1983), applicable to the Indian Navy.  
 
176. Procedure for Controlling the Expenditure of Funds Allotted for the Maintenance 
of Indian Naval Auxiliary Service.  (1) It shall be the responsibility of the authorities to whom 
allotment of funds are made to watch the progress of expenditure and to see that the expenditure 
does not exceed the allotment.  
 
(2) Details o f the centrally controlled heads and the authorities at Headquarters 
responsible for the control of expenditure and initial preparation of Budget shall be as follows: - 
 
Sub Head         Detailed Head  
 
Indian Naval Auxiliary Service  1. Pay and Allowances of  Establishments  
 
     2. pay and Allowance of Trainees.  
 
     3. Transportation Charges of Trainees.  
 
Explanation - For the purposes of these regulations, when the estimates included under the 
detailed head are controlled by the Naval Headquarters, the head  is said to be centrally 
controlled.  No estimates are required to be submitted by the Commanding or Administrative 
authorities under these heads.  
 
(3) Details of locally controlled heads, the officers responsible for preparation of 
these estimates and con trol of expenditure, and the channel through and the date on which the 
Budget Estimates are required to be submitted shall be as shown in the table below: -  
 Sub Head  Detailed  Authority  Officer   Date of   Date of  
 Head   at Head - responsible  receipt in   receipt in  
    Quarters  for initial  Controller   Naval Head  
      Preparation  of Defence   quarters for  
      Of Budget  Accounts   budget next  
        (Navy) Office   year 
        for Budget  
                             next year  
 
1  2   3  4  5  6 
 
Indian    Miscellaneous  Registrar of  Administra - 10th October  30th October  
Naval   Expenditure   Naval Auxili - tive authori -  
Auxilia ry    ary service  ties 
Service     Naval Head  
     -quarters