standing;  
 
                            or 
 
have attended a technical institute, college or school and obtained a 
diploma or other proof of having successfully completed a course and 
in addition, of having acquired considerable practical engineering 
experie nce, that is, having served as an apprentice with a reputable 
firm and having held a responsible appointment in a mechanical, 
electrical or automobile firm.  
 
(d)   Education Branch - In order to qualify for appointment in this branch, a  
candidate shall -  
 
i.  have attained the age of twenty -one years and be less than forty  
years of age; and  
 
ii. an engineering graduate in Mechanical, Electrical or Computer  
Science; or  
 
iii. a second class Master Degree in Physics(with Maths in B.Sc.), or Maths 
(with Physics in B Sc) or Computer Science (with either Physics or Maths 
in BSc.  
 
Explanation: - 
 
(1)  Preference may be given to those who posses, in addition teaching qualifications 
or who have had teaching experience.  
 
(2)   The intake of post graduate in English and Chemi stry as well as graduates in 
Engineering may be restricted to the minimum according to the requirements for teaching 
these subjects, at the discretion of the Chief of the Naval Staff.  
 
(e)   Medical Branch - In order to qualify for appointment in this Branch a  
      candidate shall - 
 
(i)   be less than forty years of age;  
 
(ii)   possess a medical qualification included in the First Schedule or the 
Second Schedule or Part II of the Third Schedule (excepting the 
Licentiate qualifications included in that Schedule ), to the Indian Medical 
Council Act, 1956, and be registered on any State Medical Register.  
 
22.   Relaxation of Qualifications.  In the case of ex -officers of the three Services and their 
reserves, the qualifications prescribed in regulation 21 may be re laxed, provided they have a 
distinguished record of service and the technical ability possessed by them (if applying for a 
technical appointment) is considered adequate by the Selection Board.