216. Reward for Apprehension of Deserters.   
 
(1) A grant of one hundred rupees is admissible to any person who apprehends a person 
belonging to the service who is declared to be on a state of desertion or absence without 
leave fr om his establishment (other than a person who voluntarily surrenders himself.) 
The grant shall be paid as soon as possible after the person has been delivered to service 
authorities or civil custody.  
 
(2) In case of apprehension of a deserter when notifyi ng to a Commanding Officer of 
such apprehension the Police Officer concerned should at the same time furnish the 
Commanding Officer with the name and address in full of the actual person to whom the 
reward is payable.  As soon as possible after the deserte r reaches his establishment the 
Commanding Officer shall remit the reward by money -order direct to the person entitled 
to it whose money -order acknowledgement shall be accepted by the audit authorities as 
sufficient voucher for the amount paid as reward an d for the money -order fee.  
 
217. Office Allowance.  
 
 (1) Office allowance of establishments shall be drawn on the following scales: - 
 
For establishments with a total strength of 500 or more Rs. 30p.m.  
 
For establishments with a total strength of less than 50 0- Rs. 10 p.m.  
 
(2) The office allowance is intended to meet expenses incurred on purchase of articles of 
stationery.  The cost of stationery obtained from the Government sources or purchased 
locally in accordance with the relevant rules shall not be debit able to office allowance.  
 
(3) To enable establishments to obtain their requirements of articles annually in bulk, the 
establishments may draw in advance a lump sum equivalent to their monthly office 
allowance for six months.  In addition they shall be pai d one half of their monthly 
allowance each month throughout the year including the month in which the lump sum 
advance is advanced.  The total amount so drawn during the whole year shall not exceed 
the amount calculated at the appropriate scale laid down i n sub -regulation (1).  
 
218. Office Allowance on Embodiment of Service.  An officer or a sailor, when embodied 
or called up for service is entitled to office allowance at the rates laid down in Pay and 
Allowances Regulations Vol.II and other Government orde rs for the corresponding Naval Units.  
The amount of allowance shall be proportionate to the period of embodiment.  
 
219. Upkeep Allowance of Bicycles.  Expenditure on repairs and maintenance of 
Government owned bicycles should  be restricted to a maximum of  thirty rupees per bicycle per 
financial year on an average.  
 
220. Supply of Stationery.  Establishments shall draw stationery from Stationery Depots in 
accordance with the regulations as laid down for regular naval establishments.