part in the proceedings or a ctivities of an institution or organization or a labour trade union.  
Provided that an officer or sailor, who is not subject to the provisions of this may become a 
member of a Trade Union or Labour Union recognized by the Central or State Government and 
attend, address or take active part in the affairs of such institutions/organizations.  
 
129. Political Meetings and Candidature.  (1) No officer or sailor is allowed to speak or 
appear on the platform at, or to take any active part in, any meeting or demonst ration held for 
party or political purposes or to assist in any manner a candidate for the election to a State 
Legislature or Parliament, until he has retired, resigned or has been discharged from the Service.  
 
(2) No officer or sailor is permitted to issu e an address to electors or to announce  
himself publicly announced, as a candidate, or as a prospective candidate, for election to a 
legislative body until he has retired, resigned or has been discharged from the Service.  
 
Explanation -  The provisions of s ub-regulations (1) and (2) apply to an officer or sailor when 
embodied in peace time or in war but do not apply when not on active service.  
 
(3) No officer or sailor shall take part in or attend any political meeting or  
 demonstration in uniform nor shall discuss political questions in speeches at military gatherings 
such as dinners, prize distribution ceremonies, concerts and the like, whether such officer or 
sailor attends such gathering in uniform or otherwise.  
 
 (4) Any form of political activity on boa rd Indian Naval Ships and establishments is 
prohibited.  
 
(5) Political meetings and speeches in Indian Naval Ships and visits by candidates for  
election to a legislative, municipal or local body or by canvassers and political agents shall not 
be allowed.  
 
130. Publication.   (1) No officer or sailor shall communicate with the press or publish or  
cause to be published any book, letter or other document having bearing on any Naval, Army or 
Air Force subject or containing any fact or opinion calculated to embarrass the relations between 
the Government and the people or any section thereof or between the Government and any 
foreign country except with the previous sanction of the Government.  
 
(2) Any information of a professional nature obtained by an officer or sailor  when 
traveling or employed on duty is to be regarded as the property of the Government and 
shall not be published in any form either anonymously or otherwise.  
 
131.   Acceptance of Gifts.  (1) No officer or sailor directly or indirectly accept any gift, 
gratuity or reward from any person - 
 
(a)  in respect of any act performed in his official capacity, without the 
consent of the Government.