(2)    A sailor whose efficiency, physical condition or utility to the Service becomes 
materially impaired may be discharged from the Service by the Administrative authority 
concerned in consultation with Co mmodor e Bureau of Sailors.  
 
61.    Discharge on Compassionate Grounds.  A sailor may be discharged on compassionate 
grounds from the Service by the Administrative authority concerned in consultation with 
Commodore Bureau of Sailors.  
 
62.       Discharge on Application.  (1)    A sailor not entitled to discharge under the Act or 
these regulations, may apply in writing to the Commanding Officer of the establishment to 
which he is for the  time being appointed, stating the reasons for whi ch he wants to be 
discharged.  
 
           (2)   The Prescribed Authority, on the recommendation of Commanding Officer may in 
the discretion, grant his application of discharge and inform Commodore, Bureau o f Sailors.  
 
63.      Discharge on other Grounds.  (1) A sailor may be discharged on any of the following 
grounds, namely: - 
 
       (a)  that he has been convicted by a criminal court of an offence punishable with  
  imprisonment;  
        
       (b)   that h e has in filling up any forms prescribed by these regulations or otherwise for  
              the purpose of obtaining his enrolment made any statement which is false and which  
             he knows to be false or does not believe to be true;  
 
       © tha t his services are no longer required  
 
      (2)   Until a sailor is discharged, no irregularity or illegality in his enrolment shall affect his 
position as an enrolled person or invalidate any proceedings against him under the Act.  
 
 
64. Discharge to be E xpedited. A sailor shall, on becoming entitled to receive his 
discharge under these regulations, be so discharged with all convenient speed.  
 
65 Probationary Period.  A sailor shall be on probation for a period of two years.  
 
66. Adverse Verification.  (1) Sailor who is found, on receipt of information during post -
enrolment verification, to have unsatisfactory character or antecedents, shall be liable to be 
discharged, as “Service on Longer Required”.  
 
 (2) All cases for discharge under sub -regulation (1) s hall be reffered to the Chief of the 
Naval Staff for orders.  
 
67. Enrolment of former Government Employees.  (1) Employees of the Central or the 
State Government who have been dismissed or removed from Government service shall not be 
enrolled in the Servic e