(4)    an officer who having resigned his commission before the expiry of four 
years from the date of grant of commission in the Service may pass the retention 
examination within four years from the dat e of his being recommissioned.  
 
30.   Exemption.  
 
(1)    An ex -officer of the Army, the Navy or the Air Force, who has a minimum of 
three years previous commissioned service  shall not be required to take the retention 
examination.   
 
(2)   An officer who i s not exempted under sub -regulation (1) but who successfully 
passes a course at any naval school of instructions in any of the subjects prescribed in 
the syllabus shall be exem pted from taking that subject.’  
 
31. Syllabus for Examination.  Syllabus for the  retention examination will be laid down 
from time to time by the Chief of the Naval Staff.  
 
32. Conduct of Examination.   
 
(1)  The number of examinations to be held annually shall be at the discretion of the 
Administ rative authority of the area.  
 
(2)     The period taken for the examination shall count against the period of annual 
training as prescribed in regulation 145.  
 
(3)    All question papers shall be set by the Board of Examiners constituted in this 
behalf by the Admini strative Authority concerned.  
 
(4)    The questions set shall be sufficient to test the knowledge of the candidate and 
shall be confined to questions relating to the  candidate’s own establishment.  
 
33. Board of Examiners. The Board shall consist of a President of the rank of Commander 
and two members of the rank of Lieutenant Commander or Lieutenant of the regular Navy.  
 
34. Re-examination.   
 
 (1)    If an officer fails in one or more subjects he shall be re -examined only in the 
subject or sub jects in which he has failed.  
 
(2)   An offi cer may present himself for examination in any test or written paper any 
number of times  within the prescribed period.  
 
35. Examination Results.    
 
 (1)    The Board of Examination shall forward the results of the candidates who have 
passed the examination  wholly or in part, to the Administrative authority concerned