clothing from the Indian Naval Clothing Stores under the terms and conditions applicable t o 
officers of the regular Navy.  
 
86. Occasion of Wearing of Uniforms.  Officers shall wear Naval uniforms: - 
 
 (a) when embodied for service;  
 
 (b) on occasions of State ceremony within India, which shall include Reviews,  
official functions or entertainmen ts given by Army,  Navy or Air Force authorities or by 
civil functionaries;  
 
© when attending weddings or funerals at which officers of the Armed Forces wear 
uniform.  
 
(d) on initial or annual training of their establishment;  
 
(e) at military parades as sp ectators;  
 
(f) when summoned to an interview by a regular service officer.  
 
87. Shoulder Flashes.  Personnel dressed in uniform shall wear, shoulder/Arms flashes as 
applicable, bearing the letters ‘INXS’ on both the shoulders/Arms.  
 
 
88. Scale of Clothing .  (1) Sailors shall be entitled to free issue of clothing on their 
enrolment in accordance with the scale given in Schedule VI.  
 
 (2) Articles of clothing becoming unserviceable through fair wear and tear shall be 
replaced free of charge on expiry of the periods of wear and tear as laid down in Schedule VII.  
 
 
89 Issue of Clothing on Embodiment for Service.  (1) On embodiment for service, the 
sailors shall be entitled to free replacement of clothing in accordance with the scales prescribed 
for sailors of the Indian Navy.  All other conditions as regards to the issue of clothing, will 
apply mutatis mutandis to the sailors of IN Auxiliary Service.  
 
 (2) Personnel to whom articles of clothing are issued shall be required to effect all petty 
repairs that may b e necessary and shall be liable to make good the loss or damage caused to 
such articles other than by fair wear and tear.  The amount to be recovered for the loss or 
damages shall be determined by Commanding Officer based on the unexpired life of the item 
lost or damaged.  
 
90. Recovery of Clothing on Disembodiment.  (1) On disembodiment, the Commanding  
Officer of establishment shall cause recovery of clothing held as surplus to the scale of 
disembodied personnel and return the same to the issuing  establis hment.  
 
Additional Items of Clothing .  (1) Additional items of clothing and necessaries specified in