(b) In the case of Armed Forces Pensioners.  
 
(i)  Officers.  When an office r is in respect of a pension, it shall be held in 
abeyance and officer will receive the pay and allowances of his rank.  Officers 
who wish to commute during the period of re -employment in the service any 
portion of the pension which has been held in abeyan ce, may be permitted to do 
so provided the commutation of pension is otherwise permissible under the rules.  
A deduction equivalent to the amount of pension commuted shall be made from 
their pay from the date on which the commutation becomes effective.  Th e 
pension shall be restored on his reversion to the pension establishment.  The re -
employed service will, however, not count for any increase in his pension.  
 
(ii) Sailors.  A sailor who is in receipt of a pension shall be eligible to draw 
that pension in additi on to pay and allowances. His re -employed  service will, 
however, not count for any increase in his pension.  
 
Note —Sailors who perform continuous embodied service for fifteen years or more shall 
be subject to the same pension rules as may be laid down from  time to time for the 
sailors of the regular navy.        
 
197.  Funeral Allowances.  If death occurs during embodiment or training or is attributable to 
service, funeral allowances shall be admissible in accordance with the rules applicable to 
personnel of  the regular Navy.  
 
198. Maintenance of Pay Accounts.  The pay accounts of personnel of the Service shall be 
maintained by the Supply Officer -in-Charge, Naval Pay Office Disbursement and advance of 
pay shall be regulated in the same manner as in the case of the personnel of the regular Navy.  
 
199. Advance of Pay and Allowances.  (1) The Commanding Officer may, if he considers it 
necessary, advance from the imprest to each member of the Service during training a sum not 
exceeding three -fourths of his pay.  
 
(2) Personnel called out in aid of the Civil Power may be paid an advance up to a 
maximum of seven days of pay and allowances.  
 
200. Traveling and Daily Allowances to Recruits.  Traveling allowance shall be admissible 
to recruits of the Service at the same  scales and under the same conditions as may be laid down 
from time to time for entrants in the regular Navy.  
 
201. Subsistence and Traveling Allowance for Recruits including Rejected recruits.   
 
(1) Subsistence and traveling allowances shall be admissible to persons seeking 
recruitment to the Service at the same scale as may be laid down in this behalf from time 
to time for recruits of the regular Navy, Allowances shall be admissible to such persons 
during their journey back home.