i. have attained the age of twenty -one years and be less than forty years 
of age; and  
 
ii. hold a 2nd class  certificate of Competency or the Final passing out 
Certificate in Engineering from a recognized Mercantile Marine 
Institution followed by two years practical experience at sea or in a 
Marine Engineering concern; or  
 
iii. hold a degree in Marine or Mechanical E ngineering of a recognized 
university, or equivalent qualification recognized by the Institute of 
Engineers as exempting him from Section ‘A’ and ‘B’ of their 
Associate Membership Examination in Mechanical Engineering; or 
hold a certificate awarded after c ompletion of five years 
apprenticeship (which should have included both theoretical and 
practical training) as an Engineer in some Marine Engineering 
concern of standing; or  
 
iv. have attended a technical institute, college or school and obtained a 
diploma or other proof of having successfully completed a course and 
in addition of having acquired considerable practical engineering 
experience, that is having served as an apprentice with a reputable 
firm and having held a reasonable appointment in a mechanical, 
electrical or automobile; or  
 
v. hold a degree in Mechanical, Aeronautical, Marine, Production, 
Metallurgical or Control Engineering or any allied discipline of a 
recognized university, or equivalent qualification recognized by the 
Institute of Engineers as ex empting him from sections, ‘A’ and ‘B’ of 
their associate Membership examination in Mechanical  Engineering.  
 
(c)  Electrical Branch. –  In order to qualify for appointment in this branch, a     
candidate shall - 
 
i. have attained the age of twenty -one years and be  less than forty ye ars 
of age; and  
 
ii. hold a degree in Electrical Engineering of a recognized university or 
equivalent qualification in Electrical Engineering recognized by the 
Institute of Engineers as exempting him from Section ‘A’ and ‘B’ of 
their Associa te Membership Examination.  
 
 
                            or 
 
Hold a certificate awarded after completion of five years 
apprenticeship, (which should both theoretical and practical training) 
as an Electrical Engineer in an Electrical Engineering concern of