(v) in uniform.  
 
119. Discipline and miscellaneous Matters.  Discipline and miscellaneous matters relating 
to summary punishments and procedure in the Service shall be dealt with in accordance with the 
provi sions of Chapters II, IV, V, VII and VIII of the Regulations for the Navy, part II.  
 
120. Representation Relating to Matters Affecting Conditions of Service.   
 
(1) A sailor who wishes to make a representation relating to matters affecting his welfare 
or who ha s nay suggestion to make connected with the Service, shall bring the subject to the 
notice of his Divisional Officer through his Divisional Petty Officer.  
 
 (2) The procedure prescribed in sub -regulation (1) shall be followed irrespective of 
whether the ma tter affects a sailor individually or several sailors collectively.  
 
 (3) If the representation relates to a matter which the Divisional Officer is not competent 
to deal with, such officer shall bring it to the notice of the Executive Officer through the 
Departmental Officer, where applicable and subsequently, if necessary through the 
Departmental Officer Commanding Officer, and so on to the higher authority as the 
circumstances may require.  
 
 (4) It shall be the duty of every Master Chief Petty Officer, Ch ief Petty Officer, Petty 
Officer or Leading Rank to keep himself informed of any cause of complaint or dissatisfaction 
among the sailors and to inform his Divisional Officer so that the matter may be investigated.  
 
 (5) A copy of this sub -regulation in Eng lish and Hindi shall be kept permanently posted 
on a notice board in all Master Chief Petty Officer’s Chief Petty Officer’s and Petty Officer’s 
messes.  
  
(6) The provisions of this regulation shall not affect - 
 
(a) the procedure by which sailors may bring requests before Inspecting Officers at 
inspection in accordance with the custom of the Service;  
 
(b) the custom by which any sailor is allowed to request, through his Divisional Officer, 
to see the Commanding Officer with regard to matters of a private nat ure. 
 
©  the custom by which complaints of an immediate nature other than those about food, 
may be taken before the officer of the watch;  
 
(d) the customary procedure by which complaints of an immediate nature about food in 
ships and establishments under t he general mess system are, in the first instance, taken 
to the senior cook sailor in the galley, or in ships and establishments organized for 
centralized messing, to the sailor in charge of the dining hall.  
 
121. Complaints to Higher Authority.  (1) If an  officer or a sailor thinks that he has 
suffered any personal oppression, injustice or other ill -treatment or that he has been treated