completion of one year but before completion of two years fr om the date 
of entitlement to that allowance - Rs.450.00.  
 
(d) Those who relinquish their Commission within a year after the 
date of the first appointment to the service in case they received only the 
initial outfit allowance or in case they received a fres h outfit allowance 
within a year from the date of entitlement to the allowance -Rs.650.00.  
 
229. Outfit Allowance on Re -appointment.  The initial outfit allowance or the fresh outfit 
allowance referred to in the preceding regulation shall be admissible on r e-appointment to an 
officer who has previously drawn a full outfit allowance except as stated below: - 
 
An officer who has previously drawn an initial outfit allowance on first appointment to 
the Service shall on re -appointment receive only the difference,  if any, between the 
amount so drawn (less any refund made to Government) and the actual allowance.  In 
such cases kit maintenance allowance shall also be admissible.  
 
230. Civilian Clothing Allowance.  Civilian clothing allowance shall be admissible to 
personnel when employed in the permanent administrative or instructional staff of the ship or 
establishment at the same rates as are applicable to personnel of the regular Navy.  
 
231. Officer’s Mess Allowance.  Mess maintenance allowance shall as admissible to messes 
of the regular Navy shall be admissible to messes of the Service.  
 
232. Incidental Charges Grant.   
 
(1) An incidental charges grant of two thousand rupees shall be allowed for each ship or 
establishment subject to the discretion of the Administrative  authority.  The 
Commanding Officer may be authorized to draw advance against the incidental charges 
grant equal to one half of the allotment for the previous year or for the current year, 
whichever is less, irrespective of the fact whether the annual trai ning camp is held in the 
beginning or at the end of the year provided that more than one half of the current year’s 
grant is available.  
 
(2) Expenditure shall be limited to the amount mentioned in sub -regulation (1) and shall 
be incurred at the discretion of the Commanding Officer of the ship or establishment in 
connection with the training subject to the counter -signature of the Administrative 
authority and to audit by the Controller of Defence Accounts (Navy).  
 
(3)The cost of the following items shall be met from incidental charges grant: -  
 
(i)  compensation for damage to crops;  
 
(ii)  rent for camp site;  
 
(iii)  clearing of camp site;