(b) Subject to service rendered being certified by the authority mentioned in 
regulation 192 (2) to have been satisfactory, terminal gratu ity shall be admissible 
to officers on retirement or discharge as the case may be, for the following 
causes.  
 
 (i) on disbandment or re -organisation or interzonal transfer of ship 
or establishment, provided there is no other ship or establishment 
to which  the officer can be transferred, or his consent to a transfer 
is necessary under the rules and he refuses to consent thereto:  
 
(ii) on reaching the compulsory retirement age as laid down in 
these regulations.  
 
(iii) on being declared medically unfit for fu rther service, subject 
to the provisions of this regulation.  
  
(iv) on completion of tenure of appointment or service limits 
specified in clause (ii).  
  
(c )     in the case of termination of service on account of medical unfitness, the 
terminal gratuity s hall be payable if the officer does not qualify for a disability 
pension.  
 
(d)  in the case of pensioners (both Civil and Military) serving with the 
Service, the gratuity shall not be payable for any period of service during which 
pension continues to be drawn , except in the case of civil pensioners whose pay 
is fixed after deducting the amount of pension,  
 
(e) including the commuted portion, if any, under the provisions of 
regulation 196.  
 
Provided that no gratuity shall be payable to any retired Commissioned Off icer 
or a retired Civilian Gazetted Officer irrespective of whether his pension is held 
in abeyance or not.  
 
(f)  Terminal Gratuity admissible to any person under this regulation shall be 
assessed on the pay of substantive rank last held by him.  
 
B. SAILOR S.  The provisions relating to officers shall apply mutatis mutandis 
to the sailors      except that the terminal gratuity shall be 
admissible on discharge for the following reasons: - 
 
(a) 0n becoming entitled to discharge from the service;  
 
(b) on being d eclared medically unfit for further service, provided the 
sailor does not qualify for a disability pension;