entitled to medical treatment in a civil or private hospital to the extent admissible to personnel 
of the regular Navy.  
 
(2) Personnel of the Service who receive medical treatment in a civil or private hospital during 
the peri od of training, courses and embodiment and who are transferred to the nearest Armed 
Forces Hospitals for any further treatment shall be entitled to the same traveling concessions as 
are admissible to the corresponding rank, in the Navy for journeys from ci vil or private 
hospitals to Armed Forces Hospitals and from Armed forces Hospitals to their homes or other 
stations not involving extra expenses.  
  
Provided that the sailors shall also be entitled to free rations or allowances in lieu there of 
for so long  as they are entitled to pay and allowances subject to the usual conditions applicable 
to personnel of the regular Navy.  
 
(3) Personnel of the Service detained in hospitals for periods beyond the period of attachment 
incases of disabilities caused in and b y performance of bona fide Navy duty or organized games 
shall be entitled to medical treatment as for the personnel of the regular Navy subject to the 
payment of usual hospital stoppages as prescribed in Regulations for the Medical Services of 
Armed Forces  (1962).  
 
187. Dental Treatment.  Personnel of the Service shall be entitled to dental treatment only in so far 
as it is sanctioned for the personnel of the regular Navy during the period of training, courses or 
embodiment and shall be entitled to repair or renewal of artificial dentures as for regular Navy, 
provided the artificial denture as supplied by the Government and the repair or renewal is not 
necessitated through the fault of the personnel.  
 
188. Medical and Dental Treatment of Families.  Families  of officer and sailors shall be 
entitled to treatment by Military Medical and Dental Services as for corresponding ranks of the 
Navy on embodiment.  
 
 
 
SECTION II -DISABILITY PENSION/GRATUITY  
 
(Disability pension will be published at a later date)  
 
189. Rate of Terminal Gratuity. All officers and sailors commissioned or enrolled in the 
Service (excepting Civil Government servants holding permanent appointments), shall be 
eligible for terminal gratuity at the rates and under the conditions given below: - 
 
A. OFFI CERS.  
 (a) Terminal Gratuity shall be admissible in the circumstances mentioned 
hereinafter only to such officers as have completed a minimum of four years of 
aggregate embodied service which for this purpose shall include the period spent 
on training, at  the rate of half a month’s pay for each aggregate year of embodied 
service subject to a maximum of nine months pay.