23.   Relaxation in Age limit.  The upper age limit may be rel axed at the discretion of the 
Chief of the Naval Staff in the case of ex -officers, ex -Master Chief Petty Officer/Chief Petty 
Officer/Petty Officer or officers holding equivalent rank in the other two Services or the 
Territorial Army or the Auxiliary and Re serve Forces or any person possessing technical or 
medical qualifications.  
 
24.    Applications for Commission.  All applications for grant of commission in the Services 
shall be made to the prescribed authority together with a letter from the employer if any of the 
applicant permitting him to join the Service and giving an undertaking that the applicant shall 
be made available for training and embodiment as and when required by the Administrative 
authority of the area.  
 
25.  Method of Selection.   
 
(1)   Eligi ble candidates shall be required to appear for selection before a Service 
Selection Board appointed by the Chief of the Naval Staff or such other authority 
nominated by him in this behalf.  
 
(2)  Candidate called for interview before the Selection Boards shall be paid 
traveling allowance and daily allowance at such rates as paid to the Civilian candidates 
called for interviews before the Selection Board for commission in the Indian Navy.  
 
(3)    The selected officers shall be required to undergo such medical examina tion 
as may be laid down from time to time by the Director General of Medical Services 
(Navy).  
 
26.   Medical Examination.  
 
(1) Applicant shall be examined by a Medical Board at the station where he is 
required to present himself for examination and shall not be granted a commission in the 
Service unless he is declared physically fit for service by the Medical Board.  
 
(2)  An applicant found unfit by the Medical Board under sub -regulation  (1) may,  
if he is not satisfied with the finding of such medical boa rd, appeal to the Secretary to 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Defence within a week of the date on which 
the result of his medical examination is made known to him.  
 
(3)  The Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Defence, may after 
considering an appeal under sub -regulation (2) arrange, if necessary, for the re -
examination of the appellant by another Medical Board called “The Appeal Medical 
Board”, provided that where the opinion of specialist is required, such a specialist may  
be included in the Appeal Medical Board.  
 
(4)    An appeal under sub -regulation (2) shall be accompanied by a fee of rupees 
forty.