(4) Estimates in respect of locally controlled heads shall be prepared by the 
establishment on the prescribed form and forwarded through the Controller of Defence 
Accounts (Navy) who shall exercise a check on the estimates and record any corrections found 
necessary with reference to the sanction of competent authority or the progress of expenditure 
giving full reasons in support of all modifications.   
 
Explanation - When the provisions included under detailed heads are distributed to the 
Administrative authorities or Commanding Officers the heads are said to be locally controll ed. 
 
(5) Corrections to the original estimates of locally controlled heads shall be furnished 
not later than the 15th December in each year to the Naval Headquarters by the Administrative 
authorities in the same manner as the original estimates and thereaf ter major changes, if nay, 
shall be intimated as and when known but not later than the 15th January of the following year.  
 
 (6) The officers enumerated in column (4) of the table in sub -regulation (3) shall be 
responsible for exercising an effective and c ontinuous control over the expenditure under the 
heads under the heads under their control so that the expenditure does not exceed the allotment 
of funds.  
 
(7) The Controller of Defence Accounts (Navy) shall furnish monthly, to the local 
controlling author ities, statements of the actual expenditure complied under the detailed heads 
immediately after the monthly compilations are closed, showing the serial numbers of claims 
admitted in audit and the amounts debited against the allotment.  
 
177. Travelling allowance  of Officers attached with the Service.  Officers of the regular 
Navy attached to the Service shall be entitled to traveling and daily allowances as are 
admissible to such officers under the relevant rules.  
 
178.  Training Camp Allowance.  (1) A training camp a llowance shall be admissible 
during periods of training at the rates as applicable to personnel of the Territorial Army.  
 
(2) The training camp allowance shall be admissible subject to the conditions that - 
 
 (a) the individuals are actually living, messing  and sleeping in the camp; and  
 
(b) the Administrative authority is satisfied that payment of such allowance is 
necessary.  
 
(3) The training camp allowance is admissible whether the camp is held within or 
beyond the individual’s permanent station and irrespect ive of whether actual training takes 
place during the whole of the camp period or not, for the full period of - 
 
(i)  the initial and annual training,  
 
(ii)  training, additional to that required under these regulations and when such 
additional training is sanctioned by the Government.