(iii) on reduction of establishment.  
 
(c ) on being found medically unfit for further ser vice.  
 
206.  Railways Concession in Conjunction with Leave.  
 
 (1) Officers and sailors while embodied shall be allowed the same leave travel 
concessions as are admissible to corresponding ranks of the regular Navy - 
 
(i) When embodied in the prescribed manner f or employment on the 
permanent administrative or instructional staff, or  
 
(ii) when called out or embodied in the prescribed manner in aid of the civil 
power or to provide essential guards, or for supporting or supplementing the 
regular Navy.  
 
(2) The conc essions shall be subject to admissibility of leave under these 
regulations.  
 
(3) The leave travel concession under rule 177A of the Travel Regulations shall be 
admissible to officers once in two years of continuous embodiment and thereafter every 
second ca lendar year during such embodiment.  
 
207. Traveling Allowance for Courses, etc.  Personnel of the Service when proceeding to 
and from their place of residence to attend approved courses of instructions including approved 
voluntary training, attachments and  for the purpose of military training shall be entitled to the 
same traveling facilities as are admissible to the corresponding ranks of the regular Navy.  
 
208. Free Conveyance to Convicts and Prisoner Sailors.  (1) Sailor declared deserters or 
absentees from the Service when brought back to their ship or establishments or elsewhere for 
trial after apprehension and those sentenced to death or imprisonment for life or any term of 
imprisonment or detention, traveling to and from a prison or naval detention quarte rs or 
barracks and the necessary escorts shall be granted free conveyance as admissible for their 
return home on acquittal or expiry of the term of punishment.  Baggage shall be restricted to 
railway free allowance.  
 
(2) Sailors residing in the state terri tory of Tripura shall be granted the following 
facilities when called up for service or training in areas located in Assam: - 
 
(a) Free conveyance by air from Agartala to Gauhati and back.  
 
(b) Advances of traveling allowance for air travel mentioned in cl ause (a).  
 
 
209. Conveyance for Certain Categories of Persons Called up for Temporary 
Employment with the Service.  Ex-Officers, sailors (pensioners and non -pensioners) who are 
called up for temporary employment with the Service shall be issued with railwa y warrants for