152.   Guards of Honour and Escorts .  (1) T he composition and strength of guard of honour 
or escorts will be in accordance with the procedure in force in the regular Navy.  
 
(2) No officer or sailor of the Service shall take part in any public procession or 
ceremony, or form a guard of honour or esc orts will be accordance with the 
procedure in force in the regular Navy.  
 
153.   Medical Attendance.    (1)When called up for service or embodied for emergency or 
otherwise, officers and sailors shall be entitled to medical (in -door and out -door) attendanc e for 
themselves and the members of their families to the extent admissible to regular officers and 
sailors of the Indian Navy.  
 
(2) When called up for training, medical attendance shall be restricted to the  
personnel only.  
 
151. Death.  (1) If death occurs while i n Service or when seconded to the Army or Air 
Force, the deceased shall be given a state funeral in the same manner and to the same extent as 
admissible to regular officers and sailors of the Indian Navy.  
 
(2) Issue of Death Certificates shall be governed by Regulations 2504 of the 
Regulations for the Navy Part I.  
 
152. Reports of Death, Injury and Illness.   (1) If any member of the Service dies or is 
seriously injured or becomes seriously or dangerously ill while undergoing training or when in 
an establishment , the matter shall be notified by telegram to the next -of-kin by the officer under 
whose immediate command such member is serving at the time.  
 
(2) The telegram to the next -of-kin shall in all cases, be confirmed by a letter signed 
by an officer, giving fu ll particulars of the death, injury or illness.  
 
156. Equipment.  The establishment shall maintain equipment and stores up to their 
authorized scales in accordance with the orders issued by the Naval Headquarters in this behalf.  
 
157. Return of Stores Issu ed on Loan.  Stores issued on loan shall be returned to the stores 
establishment on separate vouchers.  
 
158. Scale of Stores.  The scale of stores and equipment authorized for the establishments of 
the Service shall be as laid down for regular Naval Establ ishments.  
 
159. Replacement of Lost or Damaged Stores.  (1) In case of loss or damage of permanent 
stores demands for replacements shall be placed on the stores depots as is done for the regular 
Navy.  
 
(2) The indents shall be accompanied by a loss statement du ly completed under the 
orders of the competent financial authority who shall decide how the cost is to be adjusted.