184. Pay and Allowances of Sailors of the Service.  
 (1) Sailors shall be entitled to pay and allowances as laid down for sailors of the 
Indian Navy, during the period of embodiment.  
 
(2) Released perso nnel who may be enrolled in the Service shall be entitled to 
pay and allowances appropriate to the class which such personnel had attained at 
the time of release, where the Commanding Officer is satisfied that they are up to 
the standard of that class.  
 
(3) Personnel of the Service, when called out or embodied for training, shall not 
be entitled to pay for the days of absence with or without leave, except as 
provided in regulations 113 to 116 and shall be liable to forfeiture of pay and 
allowances under reg ulation 133, Pay and Allowances Regulations for the Navy, 
when called out or embodied for Naval Service.  
 
(4) On joining the Service, sailors shall be allowed to count for purpose of 
increment of pay - 
 
(a) full paid previous service in the regular Armed Fo rces:  
 
(b) Previous called up or embodied service in full and one -fourth of 
other service in - 
 
(i) Indian Reserve and Territorial Forces,  
 
(ii) Auxiliary Force (India).  
 
185. Bounties.  
 (1) Bounties at the rates of Rs.50 for Master Chief Petty Officers and Rs. 35 for Chief Petty 
Officers and below per annum shall be admissible to sailors.  
 
Provided that they - 
  
(a) Complete sixty days training including an annual camp of not less than four days; 
and 
 
(b) Qualify in their annual weapons training course.  
 
(2) Thre e-fourths of the bounty specified in sub -regulation (1) shall be admissible to those who 
complete training for forty -eight days or more including an annual camp of not less than four 
days and qualify in their annual Weapon Training Course.  
 
186. Medical Treatm ent. 
 (1) Personnel of the Service shall be entitled to treatment by the Military Service at stations 
where Military Hospitals exist as for regular navy during the period of training, courses and 
embodiment, and at Stations where there are no Military Hosp itals, the personnel shall be