169. Messing and Accommodation on Embodiment. In respect of messing and 
accommodati on of officers and sailors the same regulations as apply to the messing and 
accommodation of the officers and sailors of the regular Navy shall apply.   
 
170.  Accommodation.   (1) The scales of accommodation authorized to be 
provided for the Service establishmen ts shall be as specified in Schedule ‘X’  
 
(2) If existing accommodation is not sufficient, suitable buildings of an appropriate scale 
to those authorized by Schedule ‘X’ may be hired at the discretion of the Administrative 
authority.  
 
(3) No building sha ll be hired without prior consultation with the Director General 
Defence Estates with regard to its suitablitiy.  
 
(4) Bills for the rent shall be passed on to Military Lands and Cantonments Directorate 
for payment.  
 
(5) Where no permanent or temporary acc ommodation is available, tenageshall be used 
up to authorized scales.  
 
(6) Scales of teenage for annual establishments are laid down in Schedule ‘XI’  
 
(7) Compensation in lieu of quarters shall be available to members of permanent and 
instructional staff o n the same terms and conditions as for the regular Navy.  
 
171. Accommodation on Embodiment.   (1) The officers of the Service on the permanent 
staff, who have been allotted accommodation (married or single) at the Headquarters station of 
the Service establishme nt shall continue to retain the accommodation in the event of their 
‘embodiment’ for so long as that station continues to be their permanent Headquarters as in the 
case of officers of the regular Navy.  
 
(2) The personnel of the Service on embodiment and mo ving out to other stations are 
entitled to accommodation as for regular naval personnel serving in peace stations provided the 
period of embodiment is likely to be one year or more in which case the officers of the Service 
shall be provided an accommodatio n in the manner as laid down for regular naval officers, and 
compensation in lieu of quarters shall be admissible to the personnel of the Service at the rates 
laid down for the personnel of the regular navy when not provided with quarters in accordance 
with the prescribed percentage applicable to personnel of the regular Navy.  
 
(3) In case an establishment moves to an operational field service area, the personnel of 
the service may be permitted to retain married accommodation at the last duty (peace) statio n on 
the same conditions as are applicable to the personnel of the regular Navy.  
 
172. Furniture.  Furniture for the establishments of the Service shall be provided according 
to the same scales as for the corresponding regular naval establishments.