reduced to a lower rank by the Prescribed authorities for any suf ficient reasons to be recorded in 
writing and after giving opportunity to the person concerned.  
 
136. Discipline for Civilian Personnel.  Civilian personnel employed in the Service shall for 
purposes of discipline be governed by the rules applicable to ot her civilians paid from the 
Defence Service Funds.  
 
137. Failure to Report for Training or for Service.  A member of the Service who fails to 
report for duty in accordance with the regulations and whose absence has not been satisfactorily 
accounted for sha ll render himself liable to punishment under the Act.  
 
138. Identity cards. (1) An identity card shall be issued for a period to be specified on such 
card to the officers and sailors of the Service who shall be responsible for the security of the 
said card .  
 
(2) The identity card is the property of the Government and shall be carried during the  
 period of embodiment on the person of the holder, whether in uniform or in civilian  
 clothes.  
 
(3) Commanding Officers shall ensure by periodic inspection that all  personnel under 
their command are in possession of their identity cards and arrangements shall be made 
to check the identity cards of the personnel when they leave the ship or return on board.  
 
139.   Procedure in case of Loss of Identity Card. (1) An off icer or sailor whose identity 
card is lost shall as soon as possible, report the  fact to the Commanding Officer of the 
establishment who shall in turn at the earliest opportunity report the fact to -------  
 
 (i) the nearest police station.  
 
(ii) the Prescri bed authority  
 
(iii) the local Provost authority.  
 
(2) The Commanding Officer shall issue to the officer or sailor whose identity card  
has been lost a temporary identity pass for a period to be specified in such pass.  
 
(3) If the original identity card is found,  the temporary identity pass shall be destroyed 
and the Commanding Officer shall sign a certificate to that effect on the counterfoil of the pass 
so issued.  The loss of an identity card and failure to report such a loss are offences and 
punishments shall be awarded accordance with circumstances of each case by the Commanding 
Officer in accordance with the Regulations for the Navy.  
 
(4) Identity cards shall be withdrawn from the personnel on disembodiment and 
destroyed and the Commanding Officer shall sign a certificate to that effect on the counterfoils 
of such identity cards.