(5) Any person belonging to an establishment may be attached by the Prescribed 
Authority at his own request or other wise to any establishment of the Service or to any 
establishment of the Indian Navy.  
 
 (6) Any person belonging to an establishment, who leaves his residence for the time 
being and thereby leaves the area in which the establishment wherein  he is serving i s 
constituted shall, if he does not intend to return to that area, notify the Prescribed Authority of 
that area of his change of residence.  
 
 (7) Where a person mentioned in sub -regulation (6) intends to return but does not in fact 
return to his area withi n three months of his departure, he shall immediately on the expiry of the 
said period send intimation in writing to the Prescribed Authority.  
 
 
                                 SECTION II -RIGHTS/PRIVILAGES  
 
109. Employment with the Civil Organisations.  (1) Personnel of the Service shall not join 
any civil organizations like Special or Reserve Police, Home Guards and Raksha Dal which 
provide part -time employment only.  
 
 (2)    (a) Personnel of the Service desiring to join the Police Force on a full time ba sis 
may be permitted to do so by the Commanding Officer of the establishment.  
 
  (b)    On receipt of intimation from the civil authorities concerned, the  
           Commanding Officer of the establishment shall - 
 
   (i) in the case of sailors, take neces sary steps to discharge such sailors:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   (ii) in the case of Officers, forward the resignation of such officers to the  
  Naval  
 
  (3)    Members of the Police and the organizations specified in sub -regulation (1) shall 
not be permitted to join t he Service.  
 
110.  Reinstatement in Civil Service and Preservation of Rights.  (1) The employer of a 
person belonging to the service and called up for service in the Indian Navy under sub -
regulation of regulation 104 shall, on termination of such service, reinstate such person in an 
occupation and under conditions not less favorable than those which would have been 
applicable to such person had his employment not been so interrupted.