203. Free Conveyance to Convicts and Prisoner Officers.  Officers declared deserters or 
absentees from Service when brought to their ships or establishments or elsewhere for trial after 
apprehension and those sentenced to death or imprisonment for life or any term of 
imprisonment or detention, when traveling to and from a military or naval prison or naval 
detention barracks or quarters and th e necessary escorts shall be granted free conveyance as 
admissible to the officers of the regular Navy.  Free conveyance shall also be admissible for 
their return home on acquittal or expiry of the term of punishment.  Baggage shall be restricted 
to railwa y free allowance.  
 
204.  Traveling Allowance to Sailors.  
 
 
 (1) Sailors proceeding to and from obligatory parades shall be allowed refund of any 
conveyance expenses incurred by them subject to the following provisions: - 
 
(a)  No such refund shall be admissible  if the distance traveled is less then 
three kilometers in a single direction.  
 
(b) The Commanding Officer may authorize any payment made on this 
account specified rates as applicable.  A higher rate of mileage not exceeding the 
rate of road mileage allowa nce admissible to corresponding personnel of the 
regular Navy for the appropriate conveyance used may be authorized by the 
Administrative authority.  
 
(c ) Where facilities for public conveyance like railways, tramways, buses or 
similar conveyances are avai lable and can be utilized, the actual fares only shall 
be allowed, and in all cases the availability of such public facilities shall be taken 
into consideration in determining the rate of the allowance which shall not 
exceed the rate of conveyance allowanc e admissible to the corresponding ranks 
of the regular Navy.  
 
(2) Sailors when traveling on duty shall be entitled to conveyance, daily or mileage 
allowance from and to their place of residence as follows: -  
 
(a) Master Chief Petty Officers, Chief Petty O fficers and Petty Officers - 
 
(i) Road Journeys. Daily allowance for journeys less than thirty -two 
kilometers shall be allowed at the rates laid down in rule 61 of Travel 
Regulations.  
 
(ii) Rail Journeys.  Conveyance on warrant and daily allowance shall 
be as laid down in rule 59 of Travel Regulations.  
 
(iii) Combined Journeys.  Mileage allowance is admissible for a 
journey by road when it is combined with a journey by rail but such 
mileage allowance is limited to the amount of daily allowance unless the 
journey by road exceeds thirty –two kilometers.