142. Instructional Staff from the Regular Navy. (1) Instructional staff may be detailed 
from the R egular Naval personnel to an establishment or a group of establishments of the 
Service.  
 
(2)The duties of the instructional staff, in so far as the training of the establishment is 
concerned, shall be to instruct the personnel under the orders of the Comma nding Officer of the 
establishment and to supervise compliance of the instructions given by them.  
 
143.   Training. (1) The training shall consist of - 
 
(a) Initial training:  
 
(b) Annual training:  
 
© Voluntary training:  
 
(d) Musketry training:  
 
144.   Initial Training. (1) Every person shall be liable to under go initial training, to be  
embodied under orders of the Director of Naval Training, for a period not exceeding in the 
aggregate sixty days in any one year.  
 
(2) The Commanding Officer of an establishme nt may exempt, either wholly or in  
part any person who has, in his opinion, undergone adequate training in the regular Navy or 
otherwise from the liability to undergo initial training.  
 
 
145.   Annual Training.  (1) Personnel of the Service shall be liable  to undergo annual training 
for a period of not less than thirty -six days, and not more than sixty days in a year subject to the 
condition that they shall attend a minimum of three day’s training during every month for nine 
months, in the year excluding th e days spent in the camp.  
 
(2) Personnel of the Service may, during the period of annual training, be embodied 
under the orders of the Director of Naval Training, for an annual camp for a period 
not less than eight consecutive days.  
 
(3) The period spent i n the camp under sub -regulation (2) may be extended up to a 
maximum of fourteen consecutive days, provided the personnel volunteer and obtain 
the written consent of their respective employers, if any, for the period which is in 
excess of the period specifi ed in sub -regulation (2).  
 
 
146.      Voluntary Training.  Every enrolled person may be permitted to be embodied, under 
the orders of the Prescribed authority of the establishment to which he is appointed, for such 
periods of voluntary training as may, fro m time to time, be sanctioned by the Government in 
addition to the prescribed training.