(2) While proceeding from th eir place of residence to join their establishment, recruits 
after enrolment shall be granted an advance of ration allowance at the same scale and 
under the same conditions as may be laid down from time to time for recruits of the 
regular Navy.  
 
202. Traveling and Daily Allowances.  
 
(1) Persons called for entry as officers proceeding to and from Selection Boards shall 
be granted traveling allowance in accordance with the same rules as are applicable to 
officers of the regular Navy.  
 
(2) An officer of the Servic e shall be eligible to an allowance under the rules applicable 
to officers of the regular Navy for journeys from his home or from any other place not 
involving extra expense and back irrespective of any change in his home address during 
training when calle d out for Service, when detailed to proceed for attachment to an 
establishment, or when detailed to attend anu authorized course or local course of 
instructions under the orders of the competent authority or when called out for Service, 
when detailed to at tend any authorized course or local course of instructions under the 
orders of the competent authority or when attending the annual or any other training 
camp authorized by the Administrative authority, or when directed to serve on a board 
of inquiry or au dit board or to appear before a medical officer for examination, or when 
directed to attend a retention promotion examination, or on transfer from one ship or 
establishment to another, while employed on the permanent administrative or 
instructional staff, or on other military duty undertaken under the orders of a competent 
authority.  
 
(3) Officers proceeding to and from obligatory parades including authorized training and 
administrative duties performed by them for which pay and allowances are admissible, 
shall receive road mileage allowance at the specified rates as applicable for the actual 
number of kilometers traveled. A higher rate may be authorized with the previous 
sanction of Administrative authority subject to the condition that the maximum rate of 
mileage allowance laid down in Travel Regulations for an individual of the first grade is 
not exceeded.  Officers employed on the permanent administrative and instructional staff 
shall not be entitled to any road mileage allowance for their journey from th eir residence 
to place of duties at their headquarters and back.  The move will be notified in the 
movement orders and the claim for traveling allowances shall be supported by the 
relevant Movement orders.  
 
(4) Officers when proceeding to take charge of pe rmanent staff appointments or 
relinquishing charge thereof shall also be entitled to traveling allowance for themselves 
and their families at permanent duty scale as applicable to officers of the regular Navy.  
Claims for traveling allowance after being co untersigned by the Controlling officers and 
pre-audited by the Controller of Defence Accounts (Navy) shall be dealt with finally and 
payment made to officers before they leave for their homes.  Each claim shall be 
supported by a certificate from the office r concerned to the effect that he undertake to 
complete the journey and in the class for which he has received payment.