(iv)  conservancy charges incurred in erecting of temporary camps;  
 
(v)  water charges when the supply is not obtained from or through the 
agency of the Military Engineering Service;  
  
(vi) Provision of manuals, maps, etc;  
  
(vii) incidental charges on account of battle practice, such as cahttaies, 
bamboos, screens, discs, etc.  
 
(viii)  cleaning and polishing materials;  
 
(ix) grass for bedding in camp and during voluntary attachment and training, 
Charpoys may be hired in lieu of grass provided the total expenditure does not 
exceed that normally expended for the purchase of grass.  
 
(x) incidental and miscellaneous charges in connection with the training 
when such expenditure is not covered by other authorized heads;  
 
 
(xi) hire and purchase (under the authority of Administrative authorities 
concerned) camp furniture and maintenance thereof;  
 
(xii) hire of furniture;  
 
(xiii)  washing of clothing on ‘as required basis’.  
 
233. Annual Training Grants.  Annual training grants shall be admissible to all ships and 
establishments.  The rules for drawing the amount and the accounting procedure for budgeting 
shall be the same as for the e stablishment of the regular Navy.  
 
234. Cook Houses, Latrines and Similar Structures.  Expenditure is authorized on account 
of erection and removal of cookhouses, latrines and similar structures when free teenage, where 
authorized, is not available.  Expen diture is also authorized in connection with the erection and 
removal of chulas, partitions and similar structures required to be constructed within free 
teenage authorized.  The actual cost shall be sanctioned by the Administrative Authority and 
debited t o the expenses of the Defence Services Funds.  
 
235. Transport Charges.  Occasional expenditure on account of the transport of clothing, 
equipment and stores, provided Government transport is not available, shall be authorized.  
Transportation shall be auth orized by the Administrative Authority and the Cost thereof debited 
to transportation charges of the Service.  
 
236. Haircutting, Hair cleaning and Washing Allowance.  Haircutting, hair cleaning and 
washing allowance shall be admissible to personnel of the Serv ice when on courses of 
instructions or when called up or embodied for Service or training or when employed on the 
permanent administrative on instructional staff, at the same scales and rates as are laid down,