termination takes place after the issue of orders requiring him to perform the Service under 
these regulations.  
 
111. Preservation of certain Rights of Persons required to perform Indian Naval 
Auxiliary Service.  (1) Whenever any p erson is called up for service under sub -regulation (3) 
of regulation 104.  
 
 (a) he may, at his opinion, continue to subscribe to any provident of superannuation  
  fund or other scheme for the benefit of employees maintained in connection with the  
 employm ent which he relinquished immediately before he was so called up at such  
 rates as were applicable to him under the rules of such fund or scheme;                                                  
 
 (b) the employer by whom such person was employed shall con tinue to credit to such  
 person’s account in the fund or scheme the amount subscribed and the interest on the  
 amount in such account in accordance with the rules of the fund or scheme.  
 
 © such person may, subject to the rules of the fund or scheme, with draw any sum from 
the amount standing at his credit in the fund or scheme; and for the purpose of calculating the 
amount of contribution or withdrawal admissible, such person’s salary shall be deemed to be the 
salary which he would have received had he not  been so called up.  
 
 (2) When any person called up for service under sub -regulation (3) of regulation 104 has 
nay rights under any provident fund or superannuation fund or other scheme for the benefit of 
employees maintained in connection with the employm ent he relinquished, he shall continue, so 
long as he is engaged in the Service, and if he is reinstated, until such reinstatement under the 
provisions of these regulations to have in respect of such fund or scheme such rights as may be 
laid down from time  to time.  
 
 (3) Contributions to the Fund shall be deducted by the Naval Authorities and credits for 
recoveries made shall be transferred to the civil authorities concerned for adjustment in their 
books.  
 
112. Benefits may be varied or Cancelled.  Subject  to any provision made by the 
Government in this behalf no person shall be entitled to claim as of right any promotion, 
emolument, retired pay, pension or other benefit conferred by any provision of these regulations 
or in the Regulations for the Navy.  
 
113. Leave of Permanent Staff.  Leave for the personnel of the service on the permanent 
and instructional staff shall be governed by the leave rules for personnel of the regular Navy.  
 
114. Leave of Temporary Clerks.  Clerks employed with the establishments of the Service, 
whose services are temporary or non -pensionable may be grant leave under the rules applicable 
to civilian personnel of such categories.  
 
115. Leave during Training of Staff other than Permanent Administrative or 
Instructional Staff.  (1) Le ave of absence from the establishment may be granted to the Service 
personnel at the discretion of the Commanding Officer in cases of sickness or in circumstances