(iii) preparation and striking camps.  
 
(4) Travelling allowance admissible for attending training camps may, at the 
discretion of the individual be on the temporary duty scale or the permanent duty scale, 
irrespective of the  period of such training.  
 
Provided that no training camp allowance shall be admissible where an individual 
opts for the traveling allowance on permanent duty scale.  
 
(5) Daily and subsistence allowances shall not be admissible in conjunction with the 
training camp allowance.  
 
179.  Pay and Allowance of Sailors Serving with the Service Establishments on 
Permanent Administrative and Instructional Staff.  Sailors serving on permanent 
administrative and instructional staff shall be entitled to pay and allowances un der the rules as 
applicable to personnel of the regular Navy.  
 
180.  Civilian Clerks.   
(1) The employment of civilian clerks may be sanctioned by the Administrative 
authority where sailors are not available.  
 
(2) Clerks appointed under the preceding sub -regula tion shall be paid at the scale of 
pay and allowances admissible to Lower Division Clerks of the Government.  
 
181. Employment of Training Staff Previous to and Subsequent to the Annual Training.  
Officer and sailors may be employed before and after trainin g camps for the purpose of 
pitching and striking camps and issuing and taking into store clothing and equipment to the 
extent shown below: - 
 
(a) Officers shall normally be seconded to the permanent staff from the regular Navy 
till such time, as officers o f the Service of sufficient seniority and experience are 
available.  
 
(b) Sailors (other than permanent staff) up to 5 per cent of the authorized 
establishment at the discretion of the Commanding Officers may be employed – 
7 days before the commencement of training and 4 days after training ends.  
 
Explanation - Employment under this regulation shall be voluntary and a volunteer shall 
obtain prior consent of his employer, if any, in writing.  
 
182. Pay and Allowances of Officers of the Service.  Officers shall be entitled to pay and  
allowance as laid down for officers of the regular Navy during the period of embodiment.  
 
183. Grant of Qualification Pay to Officers of the Service.  Officers shall be granted 
qualification pay in accordance with regulation as laid  down from time to time for officers of 
the regular Navy.