SCHEDULE III  
 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SERVICE OF OFFICERS ON THE  
PERMANENT STAFF  
 
(See Regulation 72)  
 
 
1. Selection.  
 
(a)  Officers shall normally be seconded to the permanent staff from the regular Navy 
till such time, as Service Offic ers of sufficient service are available.  
 
(b) Officers of the Service selected for employment on the permanent staff of a ship 
or establishment shall normally be selected from the officer cadre of that ship or 
establishment.  
 
2. Attachments to IN Ships or Establishment. Officers seconded from the regular Navy 
when not required for training or administrative duties with the Service shall normally return to 
their own ship or establishment subject to such orders as may be issued from time to time.  In 
the case  of the Service Officers they may be attached to the nearest ship or establishment under 
orders of the Administrative authority.  During the period of attachment of these officers, the 
Service shall at times have prior claim on their services.     
 
3. The Establishment of Permanent Staff.  The establishment of officers on the 
permanent staff shall count against the sanctioned strength of the ship or establishment.  
 
4. Tenure of Appointment.  The tenure of appointment shall be as follows: - 
 
Indian Naval Aux iliary Service - five years; except when otherwise ordered.  The 
tenure may further be extended up to five years, under orders of Commanding Officer of 
ship or establishment, extension being granted for one year at a time and approval 
obtained.  
 
 
NOTE -  All the officers shall not be relieved in any one year while the relief shall be so 
arranged as to ensure continuity for administration and training.  
 
5. Action if Officer is Found Unsuitable.  In the event of an officer being found 
unsuitable for employment on the permanent staff he shall be relieved and may in the case of an 
officer of the regular Navy be returned to the regular Navy and in the case of an officer of the 
Service be relieved of his full time employment.  
 
6. Re-appointment.  No officer of the regu lar Navy shall be re -appointed on the 
permanent staff within two years of completion of his previous tenure, except when otherwise 
ordered.