147.   Musketry Training. (1) All personnel of the Service shall, in addition to the 
prescribed training be embodied for one day in a year to carry out firing practice . 
 
(2) The embodiment under sub -regulation (1) shall take place on Sundays and 
Holidays.  
 
Explanation.  For the purposes of regulations 144 to 147 a days shall consist of four hours of 
actual Naval drill or instruction, and may be made up of fractions of a  day not more then four in 
number.  
 
148.  Service on the Permanent Staff.   (1) Every officer who volunteers, with the written 
consent of his employer, if any, for employment on the permanent staff of an establishment of 
the Service may, if found suitable, be embodied under the orders of the Chief of the Naval Staff, 
for such periods as he is required to fill a vacancy on the permanent staff of that establishment 
or of any other establishment of the Service to which he may be transferred.  
 
(2) Every enrolled  person who volunteers, with the written consent of his employer, if 
any, for employment on the permanent staff of an establishment of the Service may, if found 
suitable by the Commanding Officer or the Battery Commander, as the case may be, be 
embodied fo r such periods as he is required to fill a vacancy on the permanent staff of the 
establishment.  
 
Explanation - For the purpose of this regulation a person shall be deemed to be embodied with 
effect from the date specified for such embodiment in the orders i ssued by the Chief of the 
Naval Staff or the Prescribed authority, as the case may be.    
 
 
149.   Ceremonial Parades.  (1) Personnel of the Service may, under the orders of the Director 
of Naval Training, be embodied with the consent of their respective emp loyers, if any, for the 
purpose of participating in a ceremonial parade for a period of four consecutive days.  
 
 (2) The period of embodiment under sub -regulation (1) shall be in addition to the 
prescribed training.  
 
(3) A person while embodied for trainin g under regulations 144 to 146 may be ordered 
to participate in a ceremonial parade for a period of four consecutive days, whereupon the 
period of training for which such person was embodied shall be deemed to have been extended 
by the number of days spent  by him on the parade.  
 
150. Correspondence to Whom to be Addressed.   All correspondence regarding the 
Service shall, in the, case of officers be addressed to the Chief of the Naval Staff (Registrar of 
Naval Auxiliary Service).  Naval Headquarters, New Del hi and in the case of sailors to the 
Commodore, Bureau of Sailors, Bombay.  
 
151.       Medals and Ribbons.  The grant and issue of Medals and Ribbons for the Service 
shall be the same as that of the Indian Navy.