(3) If an officer or a sailor is admitted to a civil hospital the Commanding Officer 
of the establishment shall inform the Command Medical Officer  of  such 
admission and shall arrange for the constitution of a Medical Board  
 
(4) The Medical Board composed under sub -regulation (3) shall consist of not 
less than three civil doctors including the President who shall not below the 
status of Assistant Su rgeon.  
 
(5) The proceedings of the Medical Board shall be sent to the Command Medical 
Officer concerned for approval.  
 
 
194. Medical Certificate on Discharge from Hospital.  The medical Board shall on sending 
an officer, or a sailor, home for being disabled, or  on discharging him from hospital, give him a 
certificate stating - 
 
  (a) whether he is in need of a further medical treatment;  
 
  (b) whether he is incapapble of following his trade or calling; and  
 
  (c ) the minimum probable duration of his disability.  
 
195. Sick Attendance.   
 
(1) Where services of the personnel are required as sick attendants such attendants may 
be provided on the written authority of the Commanding Officer.  
 
(2) Pay and allowances shall be admissible to sick attendants for such period as i s 
certified to be necessary by the medical authorities concerned.  
 
Provided that the period for which sick attendants may be employed shall not normally 
exceed one month.  
 
 
SECTION III -PENSION ENTITLEMENTS AND ALLOWANCES  
 
196. Pay and Allowances of Pensioners. In the case of pensioners of the Service, pay and 
allowances admissible under these regulations shall be drawn in addition to pensions of any 
nature received from the Government, except in the event of embodiment for service or on the 
permanent administrat ive or instructional staff (as distinct from embodiment for the initial 
annual and voluntary training) when the pay and allowances of such pensioners shall be as 
follows: -   
 
(a) In the case those of drawing Civil Pension.  The amount of pay shall be fixed 
after deducting the amount of pension including the commuted portion of the pension, if 
any, The pension shall continue to be drawn in addition to the pay so fixed under this 
clause.