event of an em ergency or whenever required.  
 
(3)    Officers called up foodservice under sub -regulation (2) cannot claim to be 
discharged during embodiment merely on account of their attaining the age of 
retirement.  
 
43. Resig nation.  Officer of the Service, may at the discretion of the Government, be 
permitted to resign or retire.  
 
44. Retention of Rank and Wearing of Uniform on Retirement or Resignation.   
  
 (1)    Serving Officers and ex -officers of the Service, who on term ination of their 
commissions or on resignation have been granted permission by the Government to 
retain their rank are entitled to the use of their rank at  all times if they so desire.  
 
(2)   The use of Naval titles by Government servants in civil employme nt shall be 
subject to such instructions as may be issued by the Government from time to time.  
 
(3)    An officer on retirement or on resignation after five years as a commissioned 
officer or fifteen years total service, including Service in the Navy and i n the Service, 
may, if recommended by the Commanding Officer or the Administrative authority and 
approved by the Government be permitted to retain his rank and wear the uniform 
subject, to the conditions specified in these regulations.  
 
(4)    The recommen dation referred to in -regulation (3) shall be accompanied by a 
statement of service and shall be forwarded to the Naval Headqu arters through proper 
channel.  
 
45. Discharge on Medical Grounds.    
 
 (1)    Officers who become medically unfit due to reasons n ot attribute to service 
shall be put up before a Medical Board to ascertain whether the disability is of a 
permanent or temporary nature.  
 
(2)    In case of permanent disability, an officer if confirmed in the rank, shall be 
placed on the Retired List or i f he has not been confirmed in his rank he shall be 
discharged from the Service.  
 
(3)    In case of temporary disability an officer shall be placed on the Retired List up 
to a maximum period of two years during which period, he may be required to appear 
before a Medical Board from time to time, as may be directed by the adminis trative 
authority concerned.  
  
(4)    On the expiry of two years referred to in sub -regulation (3) or on the 
recommendation of the Medical Board, and officer, if found fir for servic e, shall be 
taken back on the Active List or if still found unfit for service shall be deemed to have