(5)  If the decision of the Appeal Medical Board is in favour of the appellant or if for 
any reasons such a board is not conven ed, the fee of rupees forty shall be refunded to the 
appellant.  
 
(6)  The appellant shall not be entitled to any traveling or daily allowance in 
connection with the appeal.  
 
(7)  An applicant initially found temporarily unfit by the Medical Board on account 
of tem porary ailment will be given six weeks time to get himself cured of the ailment 
and make a request to the Chief of the Naval Staff for medical re -examination at the 
same hospital where they were initially declared temporarily unfit.  The applicant will 
not be entitled to any traveling or daily allowance in connection with this medical re -
examination.  
 
27.   Period of Probation.  All forces appointed to commissions in the Service shall be 
probation for three years and shall be confirmed in their appointment  on passing the retention 
examination.  Such confirmation shall be with effect from the date of joining the service.  
 
28. Retention Examination.  
 
(1)   Officers of the Service shall be required to pass the retention examination 
within four years of the date o f grant of a commission in the Service.  
 
(2)   Where an officer fails to pass the retention examination within the period 
prescribed in sub -regualtion (1) he shall permitted to resign failing which he shall be 
removed.  
 
(3)    An officer may not take the full exam ination at one time and shall have the 
discretion to select the test(s) and the written paper(s) which he may wish to take at any 
one time.  
 
(4)   An officer who possess in any one of the tests, written or otherwise, shall be 
deemed to have passed such test on  the first day of the examination in the subject(s) at 
which he finally qualifies.  
 
29.   Extension of Time Limit.  
 
(1)  An officer, who owing to circumstances beyond his control is unable to 
pass the examination within the prescribed period may apply for exte nsion of the 
period by one year.  
 
(2)    An application for extension shall be submitted through the normal 
channels to the Naval Headquarters giving full details of the reasons for wh ich 
an extension is required.  
 
(3)    An extension under this regulation  may be granted for a p eriod not 
exceeding one year.