Officer or the Battery Commander, as the case may be, shall supervise and control the duties 
performed by those under hi s command and shall be responsible for the training, administration, 
health, maintenance of discipline, efficiency and the maintenance of accounts in the 
establishment, or the Battery under his command, the security of buildings, armament, 
equipment, and o ther stores under his charge and shall see that these are complete, serviceable 
and confirm to the latest pattern and scale from which no deviation shall be allowed without the 
sanction of the Government.  
 
 (2) The Commanding Officer or the Battery Command er,  shall bring to the notice of the 
Administrative authority all defects, losses and damages which such Commanding Officer has 
not been able to rectify.  
 
 (3) The Commanding Officer or the Battery Commander shall so that no sailor or 
civilian employee w ho is not fit to perform his duty is retained in the service.  
 
 (4) The Commanding Officer or the Battery Commander shall in the performance of his 
duties be guided by Chapter 3 of the Regulations for the Navy Part I.  
 
79. Officers other than Commanding Of ficer -Tenure of Appointment.  (1) The tenure of 
appointment of officers other than the Commanding Officers, except when otherwise ordered by 
the Government, shall be three years, In the case of an officer belonged to the service, it may be 
extended for a p eriod of one year at a time provided that the total period so extended shall not 
exceed five years.  
 
 (2) Arrangements for relieving officers shall be made so as to ensure continuity of 
administration and training.  
 
Note - When only one officer in any rank belonging to the permanent establishment is appointed 
as an officer other than a Commanding Officer in the entire establishment, the tenure of 
appointment as prescribed in this regulation shall not apply in so far as officers of the regular 
navy are concer ned.  
80. Duties of Officers other than Commanding Officers.  Officers other than 
Commanding Officers or Battery Commanders are to be guided in the performance of their 
duties by Chapters 4,5,6,7,8,9,10,14,15,18 and 21 of the regulations for the Navy Part I 
 
81. Sanctioning Authority of Personnel of the Service.  The Commissions  in the Service 
with designations of rank corresponding to those of regular Navy shall be granted by the 
President and the sanctioning authority for the appointment of officers of t he service like 
commanding, Executive.  Logistics and other officers shall be the Naval Headquarters and for 
sailors Commodore, Bureau of Sailors.  
 
82. Officers Performing Special Duties.  An officer holding a command is to afford to 
every officer under hi s command, charged with special or particular duties, the means of 
performing such duties properly and faithfully.