Trusts or persons with technical qualifications, may be commissioned by the 
Government and given higher Acting ranks commensurate with their civil status, 
provided they are duly recommended by the Organisation, if any to which they belong.  
 
 
39. Promotion of Medical Officers : - 
 
(1)  Medical Graduates shall be commissioned as S urgen Lieutenant in the Service 
and shall be eligible for substantive promotion, if qualified and recommended  to the 
rank of Surgen Lieutenant Commander after five year as Surgen Lieutenant.  
 
 (2)  All previous commissioned Service of a Medical Officer sh all count towards 
promotion, provided he is in possession of recognized medical qualifications as 
applicable to Medical Officers of the Navy.  
 
(3)    Surgeon Lieutenant Commander having total service of fourteen years (Nine 
years as Surgeon Lieutenant Comm ander) shall be eligible for promotion to th e rank of 
Surgeon Commander.  
 
(4)    Regulations of acting promotion shall apply as in the case of other officers of the 
service.  
 
40. Retention.   During the period of probation if the conduct or performance of an officer is 
found unsatisfactory, he may be called upon to resign his commission and in case of default he 
will be liable  to removal.  
 
41. Transfer and Secondment of Officers.   
 
  (1)    A person appointed to an establishment may be transferred by the N aval 
Headquarters on order of disbandment of the establishment or otherwise to another 
establishment or otherwise to another establishment of the Service.  
 
(2)   An officer of the Service may be seconded from his establishment for a period 
not exceeding th ree years by the Administrative authority concerned, subject to the 
approval of  the Chief of the Naval Staff.  
 
42. Retirement     
 
 (1)    The age of retirement from the Service shall be as follows: -  
 
 Lieutenant and Lieutenant Commanders -  50 years (55 ye ars in the case of    
Medical Officers)  
 
 Commanders -   52 years (55 years in the case of Medical Officer).  
 
(2)    Officers placed on the Retired List but who have not attained the age of sixty 
years and are medically fit may be called up for actual serv ice in the Indian Navy in the