beyond the control of such personnel.  
 
 (2) Applications for leave of absence from all period s of training shall in case of 
sickness, be supported by medical certificates from a Medical Officer not below the status of an 
Assistant Surgeon and in other cases by a certificate from the Head of the Department or the 
employer of the personnel or in any  other manner to the satisfaction of the Commanding 
Officer.  
 
116. Leave when called up or embodies for Service.  When embodied or called up for a 
period exceeding six months, leave for the personnel of the Service shall be governed by the 
same rules as f or the regular Navy except that the personnel of the Service shall not be eligible 
for annual leave until they have embodied for a continuous period of not less than nine months 
and are expected to continue to serve for the balance of the total period of o ne year.  
 
Explanation.  (1) Civilian Government servants when called up or embodied for service shall 
continue to be governed by the civil leave rules applicable to them in their parent departments.  
 
 (2) Up to a maximum of ten days casual leave may be gra nted in exceptional 
circumstances during the period of the first six months of embodiment.  This will count against 
their normal entitlement to casual leave when it becomes admissible.  
 
117. Leave and Sick List concessions for officers and Sailors Enrolled  for Training.  (1) 
Officers and sailors who are embodied for training shall not be entitled to any leave.   
 
 (2) During periods of sickness or injury attributable to naval service, officers and sailors 
shall be governed by the same rules as are applicable  to officers and sailors of the Indian Navy.  
 
 (3) In case of sickness or injury not attributable to naval service, no leave or pay and 
allowances shall be admissible to officers and sailors and they shall be taken off the strength.  
 
 
SECTION III -DISCIPLIN E, OFFENCES AND PUNISHMENTS  
 
118. Application of.  Every person belonging to the Service shall be subject to the Act when 
he is - 
 
(i) on active service; or  
 
(ii) in or on any property of the naval service including naval establishments, ships and 
other vessels , aircraft, vehicles and armouries; or  
 
(iii) called up for training or undergoing training in pursuance of these regulations, until 
he is duly released from his training; or  
 
(iv) called up into actual service in the Indian Navy in pursuance of these regu lations 
until he is duly released therefrom; or